----------------------- Page 1-----------------------

                                                                      Tell us about your PDF experience. 

 Azure Database Migration Guides 

 Step-by-step guidance for modernizing your data assets. 

SQL Server to                                             Oracle to 

ｃ  SQL Server (upgrade)                                   ｃ  Azure Database for PostgreSQL 

ｃ  Azure SQL Database                                     ｃ  SQL Server 

ｃ  SQL database in Microsoft Fabric                       ｃ  Azure SQL Database 

ｃ  Azure SQL Managed Instance                             ｃ  Azure SQL Managed Instance 

ｃ  SQL Server on Azure VMs                                ｃ  SQL Server on Azure VMs 

ｐ   Fabric Data Warehouse 

ｑ   Migrate SQL Server to Azure video 

Db2 to                                                    Access to 

ｃ  SQL Server                                             ｃ  SQL Server 

ｃ  Azure SQL Database                                     ｃ  Azure SQL Database 

ｃ  Azure SQL Managed Instance 

ｃ  SQL Server on Azure VMs 

SAP ASE to                                                MySQL to 

ｃ  SQL Server                                             ｃ  Azure Database for MySQL 

ｃ  Azure SQL Database                                     ｃ  SQL Server 

                                                          ｃ  Azure SQL Database 

                                                          ｃ  Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible Server 

PostgreSQL to                                             Azure Synapse Analytics to Microsoft 
                                                          Fabric 
ｇ  Azure Database for PostgreSQL - Single Server 
    to Flexible Server                                    ｉ  Microsoft Fabric adoption roadmap 

ｇ  Azure Virtual Machine PostgreSQL to Azure              ｐ  Migrate to Fabric Data Warehouse 
    Database for PostgreSQL 
                                                          ｐ  Migration Assistant for Fabric Data Warehouse 

----------------------- Page 2-----------------------

  ｇ  On-premises PostgreSQL to Azure Database for            ｃ   Migrate from Azure Synapse Analytics to Fabric 
      PostgreSQL                                             ｐ   Migrate from Azure Synapse Spark to Fabric 

  ｇ  AWS RDS PostgreSQL to Azure Database for 
      PostgreSQL 

  ｇ  Amazon Aurora PostgreSQL to Azure Database 
      for PostgreSQL 

  ｇ  Google Cloud SQL for PostgreSQL to Azure 
      Database for PostgreSQL 

  NoSQL                                                      Resources 

  ｃ   Relational to Azure Cosmos DB                          ｑ  Getting started video overview 

  ｃ   MongoDB to Azure Cosmos DB                             ｅ  Azure Migration Center 

  ｃ  Cassandra to Azure Cosmos DB                            ｐ  Azure Migrate 

  ｃ   DynamoDB to Azure Cosmos DB                            ｉ  Azure Hybrid Benefit 

  ｃ  CouchBase to Azure Cosmos DB                            ｉ   Browse Azure Architecture 

  ｃ   HBase to Azure Cosmos DB                               ｉ   Microsoft cloud Adoption Framework for Azure 

  ｃ  Azure Table Storage to Azure Cosmos DB                  ｉ   Browse customer stories 

  ｃ   Elasticsearch to Azure Data Explorer 

Migration tools 

                                                                    Azure Database Migration Service 
          Azure Migrate 
                                                                     (DMS) 

          SQL Server Migration Assistant                             Fabric Migration Assistant for Data 
          (SSMA)                                                    Warehouse 

Recent customer case studies 

  Minecraft Realms                       Cloud Services 

----------------------- Page 3-----------------------

Minecraft Realms migrates                 From systems integrator to 
from AWS to Azure with                   data analytics expert, Cloud 
minimal disruption to the user           Services harnesses the power 
base.                                    of Azure for digital… 

----------------------- Page 4-----------------------

Migration overview: From SQL Server 

Applies to:       Azure SQL Managed Instance           SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines  

Azure SQL Database 

This article describes the five phases for a successful cloud migration from SQL Server to Azure 

SQL. 

      Discovery 

      Business case 

      Assessment 

      Conversion 

      Migration 

Discovery 

When you start your cloud migration journey, it's critical to discover installed software 

inventory, web apps, and SQL Server instances and databases on servers running in your on- 

premises environment. This discovery helps you tailor a migration path to Azure SQL. 

The Azure Migrate appliance performs this discovery using the Windows OS domain or non- 

domain credentials, or SQL Server authentication credentials that have access to your SQL 

Server instances and databases. This discovery process is agentless, meaning that you don't 

install anything on the servers. The Azure Migrate appliance supports discovery on various 

virtualization platforms like VMware, Microsoft Hyper-V, and physical environments. 

To learn how to discover your on-premises SQL Servers, see the  Discover section later in this 

article. 

Business case 

----------------------- Page 5-----------------------

The business case capability helps you build a business proposal to understand how Azure can 

bring the most value to your business. It highlights: 

      Total cost of ownership (TCO) between on-premises and Azure SQL. 

      Year on year cashflow analysis. 

      Resource utilization based insights to identify servers and workloads that are ideal for the 

      cloud. 

      Quick wins for migration and modernization, including end of support Windows OS and 

      SQL versions. 

      Long term cost savings by moving from a capital expenditure model to an operating 

      expenditure model, by paying for only what you use. 

Assessment 

Assessment is the analysis of configuration, utilization, and performance data collected during 

discovery. This analysis is used to measure the readiness, and estimate the effect, of migrating 

on-premises SQL Server instances to different Azure SQL targets. Assessments on SQL Server 

instances can be run using Azure Arc for SQL Server, or using Azure Migrate. 

An Azure SQL assessment provides two sizing criteria: 

      As on-premises: Assessments that make recommendations based on the on-premises 

      SQL Server configuration alone. 

      Performance-based: Assessments that make recommendations based on collected 

      performance data. 

After the assessment determines the readiness and the recommended Azure SQL deployment 

type, it computes a specific service tier and Azure SQL configuration (SKU size) that can meet 

or exceed the on-premises SQL Server performance. This calculation depends on whether 

you're using on-premises or performance-based sizing criteria. 

Conversion 

In heterogeneous migrations, while you migrate data from one database to another, make sure 

you convert the database schema and objects into equivalent Transact-SQL syntax. The source 

----------------------- Page 6-----------------------

and target database engines are different. These database objects include tables, indexes, 

views, data types, Transact-SQL statements, stored procedures, and functions. 

  ７ Note 

  You don't need the conversion phase for SQL Server to Azure SQL migrations. SQL Server 

   Migration Assistant (SSMA) performs the conversion while migrating to any of the Azure 

   SQL targets. SSMA supports multiple sources, such as Oracle, MySQL, DB2, Sybase, and 

   Microsoft Access, for both conversion and data migration. 

Migration 

Migration is the last stage of this process, in which you migrate data from the source database 

to the target database. 

Choose a migration method 

Choose from multiple migration methods depending on your target platform and acceptable 

application downtime. 

SQL Managed Instance link (near zero downtime to Azure SQL 
Managed Instance) 

If you enable Azure Arc for your SQL Server instance, you can use Managed Instance link to 

perform an online migration to Azure SQL Managed Instance. The link feature uses distributed 

availability groups to replicate data from SQL Server to SQL Managed Instance in near real- 

time. This approach allows your source database to remain operational while data is 

continuously synchronized to the target environment. Downtime is limited to the final cutover 

phase when you switch your application to the migrated database. 

Backup and restore (one-time migration to SQL Server on 
Azure VM) 

If planned downtime is acceptable, use a one-time backup and restore migration to SQL Server 

on Azure Virtual Machines. In this offline migration approach, application downtime begins 

when the migration starts and continues until the database restore is completed on the target 

environment. 

----------------------- Page 7-----------------------

Azure Database Migration Service (all targets) 

Azure Database Migration Service (Azure DMS) is a fully managed service that supports 

migrations from multiple database sources to Azure data platforms with minimal downtime, 

high reliability, and resiliency. You can access Azure DMS through the Azure portal, PowerShell, 

and Azure CLI. To learn more, see What is Azure Database Migration Service. 

Azure DMS supports both offline (one-time) migration to Azure SQL Database, SQL Managed 

Instance, or SQL Server on Azure VM, and online (continuous backup restore) migrations for 

SQL Managed Instance and Azure VM, so you can choose a migration approach based on 

downtime requirements. 

Next step 

  Migrate from SQL Server: Pre-migration 

 Last updated on 04/14/2026 

----------------------- Page 8-----------------------

Migrate from SQL Server: Pre-migration 

     Summarize this article for me 

Applies to:       Azure SQL Managed Instance            SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines  

Azure SQL Database 

This article provides steps to prepare your environment to migrate from SQL Server to Azure 

SQL Database, Azure SQL Managed Instance, or SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

Supported sources and targets for migration 

You can migrate SQL Server running on-premises or on: 

      SQL Server on virtual machines (VMs). 

      Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2. 

      Amazon Relational Database Service (AWS RDS). 

      Compute Engine - Google Cloud Platform (GCP). 

In this article, you learn how to discover and assess your user databases before migrating them 

from SQL Server to Azure SQL. 

      Migration overview: SQL Server to Azure SQL Managed Instance 

      Migration overview: SQL Server to SQL Server on Azure VMs 

      Migration overview: SQL Server to Azure SQL Database 

For other migration guides, see Azure Database Migration Guides. 

After you verify that your source environment is supported, start with the pre-migration stage. 

Discover all of the existing data sources, assess migration feasibility, and identify any blocking 

issues that might prevent your Azure cloud migration         . 

Migration steps 

This section provides an overview of the steps to take to migrate your SQL Server to Azure SQL 

Database, Azure SQL Managed Instance, or SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

  Azure SQL Managed Instance 

   To migrate your SQL Server to Azure SQL Managed Instance, follow these steps: 

         Review the SQL Server database engine features available in Azure SQL Managed 

         Instance. 

----------------------- Page 9-----------------------

        Choose a migration method and the corresponding tools for your method. 

        Create a performance baseline to determine resource usage on your source SQL 

        Server instance. This step helps you deploy a properly sized managed instance so 

        that performance after migration isn't affected. 

        Discover all SQL Server instances and features used by your organization. 

        Assess your SQL Server databases to identify migration blockers or compatibility 

        issues. 

        Create a target SQL Managed Instance. Deploy an optimally sized managed instance 

        where you choose technical characteristics (number of vCores, amount of memory) 

        and performance tier (Business Critical, General Purpose) of your managed instance. 

        Configure connectivity and proper permissions to access both source and target. 

        Migrate your database where you migrate your databases using offline migration or 

        online migration options. 

        Connect your application to Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

        Monitor and remediate applications to ensure that you see the expected 

        performance. 

                                                                                                

   If the assessment encounters multiple blockers to confirm that your database isn't ready 

  for an Azure SQL Managed Instance, then alternatively consider SQL Server on Azure 

  Virtual Machines. 

Discover 

In the discover phase, scan the network to identify all SQL Server instances and features used 

by your organization. 

Use the following tools to discover your SQL Server instances: 

      Azure Migrate to assess migration suitability of on-premises servers, perform 

      performance-based sizing, and provide cost estimations for running them in Azure. 

      Microsoft Assessment and Planning Toolkit         (MAP Toolkit) to assess your current IT 

      infrastructure. The toolkit provides a powerful inventory, assessment, and reporting tool 

      to simplify the migration planning process. 

For more information about tools available to use for the discover phase, see Services and tools 

available for data migration scenarios. 

----------------------- Page 10-----------------------

Assess 

   ７ Note 

   If you're assessing the entire SQL Server data estate at scale on VMware, see Create an 

   Azure SQL assessment to get Azure SQL deployment recommendations, target sizing, and 

   monthly estimates. 

If your assessment encounters multiple blockers, consider migrating to one of the Azure SQL 

targets as an alternative, such as Azure SQL Managed Instance or SQL Server on Azure Virtual 

Machines. 

Assess with SQL Server enabled by Arc 

To assess your SQL Server instances for migration to Azure, use SQL Server enabled by Azure 

Arc. This feature, currently in preview, automatically produces an assessment for migration to 

Azure, simplifying the discovery process and readiness assessment for migration. 

To assess your instances using SQL Server enabled by Azure Arc, follow these steps: 

    1. Automatically connect SQL Server machines to Azure Arc. 

   2. Verify your Azure Extension for SQL Server (WindowsAgent.SqlServer) version is 

      1.1.2594.118 or later. 

   3. Go your SQL Server enabled by Azure Arc resource in the Azure portal. 

   4. Under Migration, select Assessments (Preview) to open the Assessments page and 

      review results. 

For details, see Assess instances for migration with SQL Server enabled by Azure arc. 

Scaled assessments and analysis 

Azure Migrate      can perform scaled assessments and consolidate assessment reports for 

analysis. 

If you have multiple servers and databases that need to be assessed and analyzed at scale to 

provide a wider view of the data estate, see Migrate databases at scale using automation with 

DMS (Preview). 

You can automate the process by using scripts with one of the following options. To learn more 

about using scripting, see Migrate databases at scale using automation (Preview). 

      Az.DataMigration PowerShell module 

----------------------- Page 11-----------------------

      az datamigration CLI extension 

Assess the applications 

Typically, an application layer accesses user databases to persist and modify data. The SQL 

Server migration component can assess the data access layer of an application in two ways: 

      By using captured extended events or SQL Server Profiler traces of your user databases. 

Related content 

      Migration guide: SQL Server to Azure SQL Managed Instance 

      Migration guide: SQL Server to SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines 

      Migration guide: SQL Server to Azure SQL Database 

 Last updated on 02/20/2026 

----------------------- Page 12-----------------------

Self-hosted integration runtime for 
database migrations 

You can configure a self-hosted integration runtime (SHIR) to use your own compute resources 

to access the source SQL Server instance backup files in your on-premises environment. 

You need a self-hosted integration runtime to access database backups from your on-premises 

network share. 

The SHIR runtime can be downloaded from the Azure portal. The key is provided by Azure 

Database Migration Service (Azure DMS). 

For information about specific migration scenarios and Azure SQL targets, see the list of 

tutorials in the following table: 

                                                                                       ﾉ   Expand table 

  Migration scenario                                      Migration mode 

  SQL Server to Azure SQL Managed Instance                SQL Server migration experience in Azure Arc 

  SQL Server to SQL Server on an Azure virtual machine    Online / Offline 

  SQL Server to Azure SQL Database                        Offline 

   ） Important 

   If your target is Azure SQL Database, you can migrate database schema and data both 

   using Azure DMS via Azure portal. You can also use the SQL Database Projects extension 

   for Visual Studio Code to deploy the database schema before you begin a data migration. 

Recommendations 

Use a single self-hosted integration runtime for multiple source SQL Server databases. 

Install only one instance of a self-hosted integration runtime on any single computer. 

Associate only one self-hosted integration runtime with one instance of Azure DMS. 

The self-hosted integration runtime uses resources (memory and CPU) on the computer it's 

installed on. Install the self-hosted integration runtime on a computer that's separate from 

your source SQL Server instance. But the two computers should be in close proximity. Having 

----------------------- Page 13-----------------------

the self-hosted integration runtime close to the data source reduces the time it takes for the 

self-hosted integration runtime to connect to the data source. 

Use the self-hosted integration runtime only when you have your database backups in an on- 

premises SMB network share. A self-hosted integration runtime isn't required for database 

migrations if your source database backups are already in the storage blob container. 

Use up to 10 concurrent database migrations per self-hosted integration runtime on a single 

computer. To increase the number of concurrent database migrations, scale out the self-hosted 

runtime to up to four nodes or create separate instances of the self-hosted integration runtime 

on different computers. 

Configure the self-hosted integration runtime to auto-update and automatically apply any new 

features, bug fixes, and enhancements that are released. For more information, see  Self-hosted 

integration runtime auto-update. 

Limitations 

You can't use an existing self-hosted integration runtime that you created in Azure Data 

Factory for database migrations with Azure DMS. 

Related content 

      What is Azure Database Migration Service? 

      Azure Data Migration Guides 

 Last updated on 02/20/2026 

----------------------- Page 14-----------------------

Migration overview: SQL Server to Azure 
SQL Managed Instance 

     Summarize this article for me 

Applies to:       Azure SQL Managed Instance 

Learn about the options and considerations for migrating your SQL Server databases to Azure 

SQL Managed Instance. 

You can migrate SQL Server databases running on-premises or on: 

      SQL Server on Virtual Machines 

      Amazon EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud) 

      Amazon RDS (Relational Database Service) for SQL Server 

      Google Compute Engine 

      Cloud SQL for SQL Server - GCP (Google Cloud Platform) 

For other migration guides, see Database Migration. 

Overview 

Azure SQL Managed Instance is a recommended target option for SQL Server workloads that 

require a fully managed service without having to manage virtual machines or their operating 

systems. SQL Managed Instance enables you to move your on-premises applications to Azure 

with minimal application or database changes. It offers complete isolation of your instances 

with native virtual network support. 

Be sure to review the SQL Server database engine features available in Azure SQL Managed 

Instance to validate the supportability of your migration target. 

Considerations 

The key factors to consider when you're evaluating migration options are: 

      Number of servers and databases 

      Size of databases 

      Acceptable business downtime during the migration process 

One of the key benefits of migrating your SQL Server databases to SQL Managed Instance is 

that you can choose to migrate the entire instance or just a subset of individual databases. 

Carefully plan to include the following in your migration process: 

----------------------- Page 15-----------------------

      All databases that need to be colocated to the same instance 

      Instance-level objects required for your application, including logins, credentials, SQL 

      Agent jobs and operators, and server-level triggers 

   ７ Note 

   Azure SQL Managed Instance guarantees 99.99 percent availability, even in critical 

   scenarios. Overhead caused by some features in SQL Managed Instance can't be disabled. 

   For more information, see the Key causes of performance differences between SQL 

   Managed Instance and SQL Server          blog entry. 

Choose an appropriate target 

The following general guidelines can help you choose the right service tier and characteristics 

of SQL Managed Instance to help match your performance baseline: 

      Use the CPU usage baseline to provision a managed instance that matches the number of 

      cores that your instance of SQL Server uses. It might be necessary to scale resources to 

      match the hardware configuration characteristics. 

      Use the memory usage baseline to choose a vCore option that appropriately matches 

      your memory allocation. 

      Use the baseline I/O latency of the file subsystem to choose between the General Purpose 

      (latency greater than 5 ms) and Business Critical (latency less than 3 ms) service tiers. 

      Use the baseline throughput to preallocate the size of the data and log files to achieve 

      expected I/O performance. 

You can choose compute and storage resources during deployment and then change them 

afterward by using the Azure portal, without incurring downtime for your application. 

   ） Important 

   Any discrepancy in the virtual network requirements for managed instances can prevent 

   you from creating new instances or using existing ones. Learn more about  creating 

   new and configuring existing networks. 

Another key consideration in the selection of the target service tier in Azure SQL Managed 

Instance (General Purpose versus Business Critical) is the availability of certain features, like In- 

Memory OLTP, that are available only in the Business Critical tier. 

SQL Server VM alternative 

----------------------- Page 16-----------------------

Your business might have requirements that make SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines a 

more suitable target than Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

If one of the following conditions applies to your business, consider moving to a SQL Server 

virtual machine (VM) instead: 

      You require direct access to the operating system or file system, such as to install third- 

       party or custom agents on the same virtual machine with SQL Server. 

      You have strict dependency on features that are still not supported, such as 

       FileStream/FileTable, PolyBase, and cross-instance transactions. 

      You need to stay at a specific version of SQL Server (2012, for example). 

      Your compute requirements are much lower than a managed instance offers (one vCore, 

      for example), and database consolidation isn't an acceptable option. 

Migration tools 

We recommend the following migration tools: 

                                                                                              ﾉ   Expand table 

  Technology          Description 

  Azure Migrate      This Azure service helps you discover and assess your SQL data estate at scale on 
                     VMware. It provides Azure SQL deployment recommendations, target sizing, and 
                      monthly estimates. 

  Database            Migrate your SQL Server enabled by Azure Arc instance to Azure SQL Managed 
  migration           Instance through the Azure portal. 

  Native backup      SQL Managed Instance supports restore of native SQL Server database backups (.bak 
  and restore        files). It's the easiest migration option for customers who can provide full database 
                      backups to Azure Storage. 

  Log Replay         This cloud service is enabled for SQL Managed Instance based on SQL Server log- 
  Service            shipping technology. It's a migration option for customers who can provide full, 
                     differential, and log database backups to Azure Storage. Log Replay Service is used to 
                      restore backup files from Azure Blob Storage to SQL Managed Instance. 

  Managed            This feature enables online migration to SQL Managed Instance by using Always On 
  Instance link      availability technology to replicate changes nearly real time. It's a migration option for 
                     customers who require the database on SQL Managed Instance to be accessible in R/O 
                      mode while the migration is in progress, who need to keep the migration running for 
                      prolonged periods of time (such as weeks or months at a time), who require true 
                     online replication to the Business Critical service tier, and for customers who require 
                     the most performant minimum downtime migration. 

----------------------- Page 17-----------------------

 Technology          Description 

  SQL Server         After your SQL Server instance is enabled by Azure Arc, you can assess your SQL Server 
  migration          data estate to identify an optimal Azure SQL migration target. Then you can migrate 
  experience in      your SQL Server databases to Azure directly from the Azure portal. 
 Azure Arc 

The following table lists alternative migration tools: 

                                                                                           ﾉ    Expand table 

 Technology              Description 

 Transactional           Replicate data from source SQL Server database tables to SQL Managed Instance 
  replication            by providing a publisher-subscriber type migration option while maintaining 
                         transactional consistency. 

  Bulk copy              The bulk copy program (bcp) tool copies data from an instance of SQL Server into 
                         a data file. Use the tool to export the data from your source and import the data 
                         file into the target SQL managed instance. 

                         For high-speed bulk copy operations to move data to Azure SQL Managed 
                         Instance, you can use the Smart Bulk Copy tool to maximize transfer speed by 
                         taking advantage of parallel copy tasks. 

  Import Export          BACPAC is a Windows file with a .bacpac extension that encapsulates a database's 
 Wizard/BACPAC           schema and data. You can use BACPAC to both export data from a SQL Server 
                         source and import the data back into Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

 Azure Data Factory      The Copy activity in Azure Data Factory migrates data from source SQL Server 
                         databases to SQL Managed Instance by using built-in connectors and an 
                         integration runtime. 

                         Data Factory supports a wide range of connectors to move data from SQL Server 
                         sources to SQL Managed Instance. 

  Command line tools     You can migrate single databases or at scale using PowerShell and Azure CLI. 

Compare migration options 

Compare migration options to choose the path that's appropriate to your business needs. 

   ７ Note 

   For an in-depth migration comparison, see Compare LRS with the Managed Instance link. 

----------------------- Page 18-----------------------

The following table compares the recommended migration options: 

                                                                                                  ﾉ    Expand table 

  Migration            When to use                           Considerations 
  option 

  Link feature for     - Minimum downtime required,          - The migration entails establishing a network 
  Azure SQL            especially for critical workloads.    connection between SQL Server and SQL Managed 
  Managed              - Need to migrate to the              Instance, and opening communication ports. 
  Instance             Business Critical service tier.       - Uses distributed availability groups technology to 
                       - Need to migrate multiple            replicate database near real-time, making an exact 
                       databases.                            replica of the SQL Server database on SQL 
                       - Need read-only access to the        Managed Instance. 
                       database on Azure SQL                 - The database can be used for read-only access on 
                       Managed Instance during the           SQL Managed Instance while the migration is in 
                       migration.                            progress. 
                       - Need to reverse migrate out         - Provides the best performance during migration 
                       of Azure to SQL Server 2022.          with the most minimum downtime. 
                       - Migrate individual line-of-         - Can cut over at any time, so migration duration is 
                       business application databases,       unlimited 
                       or multiple databases to the          - Not affected by system updates or failovers 
                       same or multiple SQL managed 
                       instances. 
                       - Need flexibility for the cut 
                       over time frame. 

                       Supported sources: 
                       - SQL Server (2016 to 2022) on- 
                       premises or Azure VM 
                       - Amazon EC2 
                       - GCP Compute SQL Server VM 

  Log Replay           - Migrate individual line-of-         - The migration entails making full database 
  Service              business application databases.       backups on SQL Server and copying backup files to 
                       - Need more control over              Azure Blob Storage. Log Replay Service is used to 
                       database migration.                   restore backup files from Azure Blob Storage to 
                       - Non-sensitive workloads that        SQL Managed Instance. 
                       can afford downtime.                  - Databases during the migration process are in 
                       - Can only use a public               restoring mode and can't be used for read or write 
                       endpoint.                             workloads until the process is complete. 
                       - Need to migrate multiple            - Uses a public endpoint, so special network 
                       databases.                            configuration isn't necessary. 
                                                             - Can be interrupted by system updates or 
                       Supported sources:                    failovers. 
                       - SQL Server (2008 to 2022) on- 
                       premises or Azure VM 
                       - Amazon EC2 

----------------------- Page 19-----------------------

  Migration            When to use                          Considerations 
  option 

                       - Amazon RDS for SQL Server 
                       - GCP Compute SQL Server VM 

  Native backup        - Migrate individual line-of-        - Database backup uses multiple threads to 
  and restore          business application databases.      optimize data transfer to Azure Blob Storage, but 
                       - Quick and easy migration           partner bandwidth and database size can affect 
                       without a separate migration         transfer rate. 

                       service or tool.                     - Downtime should accommodate the time 
                                                            required to perform a full backup and restore 
                       Supported sources:                   (which is a size of data operation). 
                       - SQL Server (2005 to 2022) on- 
                       premises or Azure VM 
                       - Amazon EC2 
                       - GCP Compute SQL Server VM 

The following table compares the alternative migration options: 

                                                                                                 ﾉ    Expand table 

  Method or              When to use                              Considerations 
  technology 

  Transactional          - Migrate by continuously                - Setup is relatively complex compared to 
  replication            publishing changes from source           other migration options. 
                         database tables to target SQL            - Provides a continuous replication option to 
                         Managed Instance database tables.        migrate data (without taking the databases 
                         - Do full or partial database            offline). 
                         migrations of selected tables            - Transactional replication has limitations to 
                         (subset of a database).                  consider when you're setting up the publisher 
                                                                  on the source SQL Server instance. See 
                         Supported sources:                       Limitations on publishing objects to learn 
                         - SQL Server (2012 to 2022) with         more. 
                         some limitations                         - Capability to monitor replication activity is 
                         - Amazon EC2                             available. 
                         - GCP Compute SQL Server VM 

  Bulk copy              - Do full or partial data migrations.    - Requires downtime for exporting data from 
                         - Can accommodate downtime.              the source and importing into the target. 
                                                                  - The file formats and data types used in the 
                         Supported sources:                       export or import need to be consistent with 
                         - SQL Server (2005 to 2022) on-          table schemas. 
                         premises or Azure VM 
                         - Amazon EC2 
                         - Amazon RDS for SQL Server 
                         - GCP Compute SQL Server VM 

----------------------- Page 20-----------------------

  Method or             When to use                             Considerations 
  technology 

  Import Export         - Migrate individual line-of-           - Requires downtime because data needs to 
  Wizard/BACPAC         business application databases.         be exported at the source and imported at 
                        - Suited for smaller databases.         the destination. 
                        Doesn't require a separate              - The file formats and data types used in the 
                        migration service or tool.              export or import need to be consistent with 
                                                                table schemas to avoid truncation or data- 
                        Supported sources:                      type mismatch errors. 
                        - SQL Server (2005 to 2022) on-         - Time taken to export a database with a large 
                        premises or Azure VM                    number of objects can be significantly higher. 
                        - Amazon EC2 
                        - Amazon RDS 
                        - GCP Compute SQL Server VM 

  Azure Data            - Migrate and/or transform data         - Requires creating data movement pipelines 
  Factory               from source SQL Server databases.       in Data Factory to move data from source to 
                        - Merging data from multiple            destination. 
                        sources of data to Azure SQL            - Cost   is an important consideration and is 
                        Managed Instance is typically for       based on factors like pipeline triggers, activity 
                        business intelligence (BI)              runs, and duration of data movement. 
                        workloads. 

Feature interoperability 

There are more considerations when you're migrating workloads that rely on other SQL Server 

features. 

SQL Server Integration Services 

Migrate SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) packages and projects in SSISDB to Azure SQL 

Managed Instance by using Azure Database Migration Service. 

Only SSIS packages in SSISDB starting with SQL Server 2012 are supported for migration. 

Convert older SSIS packages before migration. See the project conversion tutorial to learn 

more. 

SQL Server Reporting Services 

You can migrate SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) reports to paginated reports in Power BI. 

Use the RDL Migration Tool          to help prepare and migrate your reports. Microsoft developed 

this tool to help customers migrate Report Definition Language (RDL) reports from their SSRS 

----------------------- Page 21-----------------------

servers to Power BI. It's available on GitHub, and it documents an end-to-end walkthrough of 

the migration scenario. 

SQL Server Analysis Services 

SQL Server Analysis Services tabular models from SQL Server 2012 and later can be migrated to 

Azure Analysis Services, which is a platform as a service (PaaS) deployment model for the 

Analysis Services tabular model in Azure. You can learn more about migrating on-premises 

models to Azure Analysis Services in this video tutorial. 

Alternatively, you can consider migrating your on-premises Analysis Services tabular models to 

Power BI Premium by using the new XMLA read/write endpoints. 

High availability 

The SQL Server high-availability features Always On failover cluster instances and Always On 

availability groups become obsolete on the target SQL managed instance. High-availability 

architecture is already built into both General Purpose (standard availability model) and 

Business Critical (premium availability model) service tiers for SQL Managed Instance. The 

premium availability model also provides read scale-out that allows connecting into one of the 

secondary nodes for read-only purposes. 

Beyond the high-availability architecture that's included in SQL Managed Instance, the failover 

groups feature allows you to manage the replication and failover of databases in a managed 

instance to another region. 

SQL Agent j obs 

Use the offline Azure Database Migration Service option to migrate SQL Agent jobs. Otherwise, 

script the jobs in Transact-SQL (T-SQL) by using SQL Server Management Studio and then 

manually re-create them on the target SQL managed instance. 

  ） Important 

   Currently, Azure Database Migration Service supports only jobs with T-SQL subsystem 

   steps. Jobs with SSIS package steps have to be manually migrated. 

Logins and groups 

----------------------- Page 22-----------------------

Move SQL logins from the SQL Server source to Azure SQL Managed Instance by using 

Database Migration Service in offline mode. Use the Select logins pane in the Migration Wizard 

to migrate logins to your target SQL managed instance. 

By default, Azure Database Migration Service supports migrating only SQL logins. However, 

you can enable the migration of Windows logins by: 

      Ensuring that the target SQL managed instance has read access to Microsoft Entra ID 

      (formerly Azure Active Directory). A user who has the Privileged Role Administrator role 

      can configure that access via the Azure portal. 

      Configuring Azure Database Migration Service to enable Windows user or group login 

      migrations. You set this up via the Azure portal, on the Configuration page. After you 

      enable this setting, restart the service for the changes to take effect. 

After you restart the service, Windows user or group logins appear in the list of logins available 

for migration. For any Windows user or group logins that you migrate, you're prompted to 

provide the associated domain name. Service user accounts (accounts with the domain name 

NT AUTHORITY) and virtual user accounts (accounts with the domain name NT SERVICE) aren't 

supported. To learn more, see Tutorial: Migrate Windows users and groups in a SQL Server 

instance to Azure SQL Managed Instance using T-SQL DDL syntax. 

Alternatively, you can use the  PowerShell utility   specially designed by Microsoft data 

migration architects. The utility uses PowerShell to create a T-SQL script to re-create logins and 

select database users from the source to the target. 

The PowerShell utility automatically maps Windows Server Active Directory accounts to 

Microsoft Entra accounts, and it can do a UPN lookup for each login against the source Active 

Directory instance. The utility scripts custom server and database roles, along with role 

membership and user permissions. Contained databases aren't yet supported, and only a 

subset of possible SQL Server permissions is scripted. 

Encryption 

When you're migrating databases protected by transparent data encryption to a managed 

instance by using the native restore option, migrate the corresponding certificate from the 

source SQL Server instance to the target SQL managed instance before database restore. 

System databases 

Restore of system databases isn't supported. To migrate instance-level objects (stored in the 

master and  msdb databases), script them by using T-SQL and then re-create them on the 

target managed instance. 

----------------------- Page 23-----------------------

In-Memory OLTP (memory-optimized tables) 

SQL Server provides an In-Memory OLTP capability. It allows usage of memory-optimized 

tables, memory-optimized table types, and natively compiled SQL modules to run workloads 

that have high-throughput and low-latency requirements for transactional processing. 

   ） Important 

   In-Memory OLTP is supported only in the Business Critical tier in Azure SQL Managed 

   Instance. It's not supported in the General Purpose tier. 

If you have memory-optimized tables or memory-optimized table types in your on-premises 

SQL Server instance and you want to migrate to Azure SQL Managed Instance, you should 

either: 

      Choose the Business Critical tier for your target SQL managed instance that supports In- 

      Memory OLTP. 

      If you want to migrate to the General Purpose tier in Azure SQL Managed Instance, 

      remove memory-optimized tables, memory-optimized table types, and natively compiled 

      SQL modules that interact with memory-optimized objects before migrating your 

      databases. You can use the following T-SQL query to identify all objects that need to be 

      removed before migration to the General Purpose tier: 

        SQL 

        SELECT * FROM sys.tables WHERE is_memory_optimized = 1; 
        SELECT * FROM sys.table_types WHERE is_memory_optimized = 1; 
        SELECT * FROM sys.sql_modules WHERE uses_native_compilation = 1; 

To learn more about in-memory technologies, see Optimize performance by using in-memory 

technologies in Azure SQL Database and Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

Restore operation failures after migrating to SQL Managed 
Instance 

If you migrate a database to Azure SQL Managed Instance from SQL Server 2019 and later 

versions with accelerated database recovery enabled, but configured with the persistent 

version store (PVS) set to something other than the  PRIMARY  file group, you can experience 

restore operation failures on the target SQL managed instance. 

----------------------- Page 24-----------------------

To work around this issue, make sure you set the persistent version store (PVS) to PRIMARY on 

the source SQL Server database before you migrate it to SQL Managed Instance. If you already 

migrated the database without setting the PVS to  PRIMARY , you can set it on the source SQL 

Server database, and then re-migrate the database to SQL Managed Instance. 

Unable to use accelerated database recovery after migrating 
to SQL Managed Instance 

Starting with SQL Server 2019, if you migrate a database to Azure SQL Managed Instance, and 

the source database has accelerated database recovery disabled, you can't use accelerated 

database recovery on the target SQL managed instance. 

To work around this issue, make sure you enable accelerated database recovery on the source 

SQL Server database before you migrate it to SQL Managed Instance. If you already migrated 

the database without enabling accelerated database recovery, you can enable it on the source 

SQL Server database, and then re-migrate the database to SQL managed instance. 

SQL Server 2017 and earlier versions don't support accelerated database recovery, so this issue 

doesn't apply to databases migrated from those versions of SQL Server. 

Unable to use Service Broker after migrating to SQL Managed 
Instance 

If you migrate a database to Azure SQL Managed Instance, and Service Broker is disabled on 

the source database, you can't use Service Broker on the target SQL managed instance. 

To work around this issue, make sure you enable Service Broker on the source SQL Server 

database before you migrate it to SQL Managed Instance. If you already migrated the database 

without enabling Service Broker, you can enable it on the source SQL Server database, and 

then re-migrate the database to SQL Managed Instance. 

Advanced features 

Be sure to take advantage of the advanced cloud-based features in SQL Managed Instance. For 

example, you don't need to worry about managing backups because the service does it for 

you. You can restore to any point in time within the retention period. Additionally, you don't 

need to worry about setting up high availability, because high availability is built in. 

To strengthen security, consider using Microsoft Entra authentication for Azure SQL, 

auditing, threat detection, row-level security, and dynamic data masking. 

----------------------- Page 25-----------------------

In addition to advanced management and security features, SQL Managed Instance provides 

advanced tools that can help you monitor and tune your workload. Azure SQL Analytics allows 

you to monitor a large set of managed instances in a centralized way. Automatic tuning in 

managed instances continuously monitors performance of your SQL plan execution and 

automatically fixes the identified performance problems. 

Some features are available only after the database compatibility level is changed to the latest 

compatibility level (150). 

Migration assets 

For more assistance, see the following resources that were developed for real-world migration 

projects. 

                                                                                             ﾉ   Expand table 

 Asset                        Description 

  Data workload               This tool provides suggested "best fit" target platforms, cloud readiness, and 
  assessment model and        an application/database remediation level for a workload. It offers simple, one- 
  tool                        click calculation and report generation that helps to accelerate large estate 
                              assessments by providing an automated and uniform decision process for 
                              target platforms. 

  Utility to move on-         A PowerShell script can create a T-SQL command script to re-create logins and 
  premises SQL Server         select database users from on-premises SQL Server to Azure SQL Managed 
  logins to Azure SQL         Instance. The tool allows automatic mapping of Windows Server Active 
  Managed Instance            Directory accounts to Microsoft Entra accounts, along with optionally 
                              migrating SQL Server native logins. 

  Perfmon data collection     You can use the Logman tool to collect Perfmon data (to help you understand 
  automation by using         baseline performance) and get migration target recommendations. This tool 
  Logman                      uses logman.exe to create the command that will create, start, stop, and delete 
                              performance counters set on a remote SQL Server instance. 

The Data SQL Engineering team developed these resources. This team's core charter is to 

unblock and accelerate complex modernization for data platform migration projects to 

Microsoft's Azure data platform. 

Related content 

       Migration guide: SQL Server to Azure SQL Managed Instance 

      Services and tools available for data migration scenarios 

      Service tiers in Azure SQL Managed Instance 

----------------------- Page 26-----------------------

     T-SQL differences between SQL Server & Azure SQL Managed Instance 

     Cloud Adoption Framework for Azure 

     Best practices for costing and sizing workloads migrated to Azure 

Last updated on 03/10/2026 

----------------------- Page 27-----------------------

Assessment rules for SQL Server to 
Azure SQL Managed Instance migration 

Article  • 01/08/2025 

Applies to:        Azure SQL Managed Instance 

Migration tools validate your source SQL Server instance by running several assessment 

rules. The rules identify issues that must be addressed before migrating your SQL Server 

database to Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

This article provides a list of the rules used to assess the feasibility of migrating your 

SQL Server database to Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

Rules summary 

                                                                                    ﾉ   Expand table 

  Rule Title                               Level       Category     Details 

  AnalysisCommandJob                       Instance    Warning      AnalysisCommand job step isn't 
                                                                    supported in Azure SQL Managed 
                                                                    Instance. 

  AnalysisQueryJob                         Instance    Warning      AnalysisQuery job step isn't 
                                                                    supported in Azure SQL Managed 
                                                                    Instance. 

  AssemblyFromFile                         Database    Issue        'CREATE ASSEMBLY' and 'ALTER 
                                                                    ASSEMBLY' with a file parameter 
                                                                    are unsupported in Azure SQL 
                                                                    Managed Instance. 

  BulkInsert                               Database    Issue        BULK INSERT with non-Azure blob 
                                                                    data source isn't supported in 
                                                                    Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

  ClrStrictSecurity                        Database    Warning      CLR assemblies marked as SAFE or 
                                                                    EXTERNAL_ACCESS are considered 
                                                                    UNSAFE. 

  ComputeClause                            Database    Warning      COMPUTE clause is no longer 
                                                                    supported and has been removed. 

  CryptographicProvider                    Database    Issue        A use of CREATE CRYPTOGRAPHIC 
                                                                    PROVIDER or ALTER 

----------------------- Page 28-----------------------

Rule Title                               Level       Category     Details 

                                                                  CRYPTOGRAPHIC PROVIDER was 
                                                                  found. This isn't supported in 
                                                                  Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

DatabasePrincipalAlias                   Database     Issue       SYS.DATABASE_PRINCIPAL_ALIASES 

                                                                  is no longer supported and has 
                                                                  been removed. 

DbCompatLevelLowerThan100                Database    Warning      Database compatibility level below 

                                                                  100 isn't supported. 

DisableDefCNSTCHK                        Database     Issue       SET option 

                                                                  DISABLE_DEF_CNST_CHK is no 

                                                                  longer supported and has been 
                                                                  removed. 

FastFirstRowHint                         Database    Warning      FASTFIRSTROW query hint is no 

                                                                  longer supported and has been 
                                                                  removed. 

FileStream                               Database     Issue       FILESTREAM and FileTable aren't 

                                                                  supported in Azure SQL Managed 
                                                                  Instance. 

LinkedServerWithNonSQLProvider           Database     Issue       Linked server with non-SQL Server 

                                                                  Provider isn't supported in Azure 
                                                                  SQL Managed Instance. 

MergeJob                                 Instance    Warning      Merge job step isn't supported in 

                                                                  Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

MIDatabaseSize                           Database     Issue       Azure SQL Managed Instance 

                                                                  doesn't support database size 
                                                                  greater than 16 TB. 

MIHeterogeneousMSDTCTransactSQL          Database     Issue       BEGIN DISTRIBUTED 

                                                                  TRANSACTION with non-SQL 
                                                                  Server remote server isn't 
                                                                  supported in Azure SQL Managed 
                                                                  Instance. 

MIHomogeneousMSDTCTransactSQL            Database     Issue       BEGIN DISTRIBUTED 

                                                                  TRANSACTION is supported across 
                                                                  multiple servers for Azure SQL 
                                                                  Managed Instance. 

MIInstanceSize                           Instance    Warning      Maximum instance storage size in 

                                                                  Azure SQL Managed Instance can't 
                                                                  be greater than 8 TB. 

----------------------- Page 29-----------------------

Rule Title                                   Level        Category     Details 

MultipleLogFiles                             Database     Issue        Azure SQL Managed Instance 
                                                                       doesn't support databases with 
                                                                       multiple log files. 

NextColumn                                   Database     Issue        Tables and Columns named NEXT 
                                                                       lead to an error In Azure SQL 
                                                                        Managed Instance. 

NonANSILeftOuterJoinSyntax                   Database     Warning       Non-ANSI style left outer join is no 
                                                                       longer supported and has been 
                                                                       removed. 

NonANSIRightOuterJoinSyntax                  Database     Warning       Non-ANSI style right outer join is 
                                                                       no longer supported and has been 
                                                                       removed. 

NumDbExceeds100                              Instance     Warning      Azure SQL Managed Instance 
                                                                       supports a maximum of 100 
                                                                       databases per instance. 

OpenRowsetWithNonBlobDataSourceBulk          Database     Issue        OpenRowSet used in bulk 
                                                                       operation with non-Azure blob 
                                                                       storage data source isn't 
                                                                       supported in Azure SQL Managed 
                                                                        Instance. 

OpenRowsetWithNonSQLProvider                 Database     Issue        OpenRowSet with non-SQL 
                                                                       provider isn't supported in Azure 
                                                                       SQL Managed Instance. 

PowerShellJob                                Instance     Warning       PowerShell job step isn't 
                                                                       supported in Azure SQL Managed 
                                                                        Instance. 

QueueReaderJob                               Instance     Warning      Queue Reader job step isn't 
                                                                       supported in Azure SQL Managed 
                                                                        Instance. 

RAISERROR                                    Database     Warning       Legacy style RAISERROR calls 
                                                                       should be replaced with modern 
                                                                       equivalents. 

SqlMail                                      Database     Warning      SQL Mail is no longer supported. 

SystemProcedures110                          Database     Warning       Detected statements that 
                                                                       reference removed system stored 
                                                                       procedures that aren't available in 
                                                                       Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

----------------------- Page 30-----------------------

  Rule Title                               Level       Category    Details 

  TraceFlags                               Instance    Warning     Trace flags not supported in Azure 
                                                                   SQL Managed Instance were 
                                                                   found. 

  TransactSqlJob                           Instance    Warning     TSQL job step includes 
                                                                   unsupported commands in Azure 
                                                                   SQL Managed Instance. 

  WindowsAuthentication                    Instance    Warning     Database users mapped with 
                                                                   Windows authentication 
                                                                   (integrated security) aren't 
                                                                   supported in Azure SQL Managed 
                                                                   Instance. 

  XpCmdshell                               Database    Issue       xp_cmdshell isn't supported in 
                                                                   Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

AnalysisCommand j ob 

Title: AnalysisCommand job step is not supported in Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

Category: Warning 

Description 

It is a job step that runs an Analysis Services command. AnalysisCommand job step isn't 

supported in Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

Recommendation 

Review affected objects section in Azure Migrate to see all jobs using Analysis Service 

Command job step and evaluate if the job step or the affected object can be removed. 

Alternatively, migrate to SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

More information: SQL Server Agent differences in Azure SQL Managed Instance 

AnalysisQuery jo b 

Title: AnalysisQuery job step is not supported in Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

Category: Warning 

Description 

It is a job step that runs an Analysis Services query. AnalysisQuery job step isn't 

supported in Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

----------------------- Page 31-----------------------

Recommendation 

Review affected objects section in Azure Migrate to see all jobs using Analysis Service 

Query job step and evaluate if the job step or the affected object can be removed. 

Alternatively, migrate to SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

More information: SQL Server Agent differences in Azure SQL Managed Instance 

Assembly from file 

Title: 'CREATE ASSEMBLY' and 'ALTER ASSEMBLY' with a file parameter are 

unsupported in Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

Category: Issue 

Description 

Azure SQL Managed Instance doesn't support  CREATE ASSEMBLY  or  ALTER ASSEMBLY  with 

a file parameter. A binary parameter is supported. See the Affected Objects section for 

the specific object where the file parameter is used. 

Recommendation 

Review objects using  CREATE ASSEMBLY  or  ALTER ASSEMBLY  with a file parameter. If any 

such objects that are required, convert the file parameter to a binary parameter. 

Alternatively, migrate to SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

More information: CLR differences in Azure SQL Managed Instance 

BULK INSERT 

Title: BULK INSERT with non-Azure blob data source is not supported in Azure SQL 

Managed Instance. 

Category: Issue 

Description 

Azure SQL Managed Instance can't access file shares or Windows folders. See the 

"Affected Objects" section for the specific uses of BULK INSERT statements that don't 

reference an Azure blob. Objects with 'BULK INSERT' where the source isn't Azure Blob 

Storage doesn't work after migrating to Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

Recommendation 

You need to convert BULK INSERT statements that use local files or file shares to use files 

from Azure Blob Storage instead, when migrating to Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

----------------------- Page 32-----------------------

More information: Bulk Insert and OPENROWSET differences in Azure SQL Managed 

Instance 

CLR security 

Title: CLR assemblies marked as SAFE or EXTERNAL_ACCESS are considered UNSAFE 

Category: Warning 

Description 

CLR Strict Security mode is enforced in Azure SQL Managed Instance. This mode is 

enabled by default and introduces breaking changes for databases containing user- 

defined CLR assemblies marked either SAFE or EXTERNAL_ACCESS. 

Recommendation 

CLR uses Code Access Security (CAS) in the .NET Framework, which is no longer 

supported as a security boundary. A CLR assembly created with  PERMISSION_SET = SAFE 

might be able to access external system resources, call unmanaged code, and acquire 

sysadmin privileges. In SQL Server 2017 (14.x) and later versions, the  sp_configure 

option, clr strict security, enhances the security of CLR assemblies.  clr strict security 

is enabled by default, and treats  SAFE and  EXTERNAL_ACCESS assemblies as if they were 

marked  UNSAFE. The  clr strict security option can be disabled for backward 

compatibility, but isn't recommended. 

We recommend that you sign all assemblies by a certificate or asymmetric key, with a 

corresponding login that has been granted  UNSAFE ASSEMBLY  permission in the  master 

database. SQL Server administrators can also add assemblies to a list of assemblies, 

which the Database Engine should trust. For more information, see 

sys.sp_add_trusted_assembly. 

COMPUTE clause 

Title: COMPUTE clause is no longer supported and has been removed. 

Category: Warning 

Description 

The COMPUTE clause generates totals that appear as additional summary columns at 

the end of the result set. However, this clause is no longer supported in Azure SQL 

Managed Instance. 

Recommendation 

The T-SQL module needs to be rewritten using the ROLLUP operator instead. The 

----------------------- Page 33-----------------------

following code demonstrates how COMPUTE can be replaced with ROLLUP: 

   SQL 

   USE AdventureWorks2022; 
   GO 

   SELECT SalesOrderID, 
       UnitPrice, 
       UnitPriceDiscount 
   FROM Sales.SalesOrderDetail 
   ORDER BY SalesOrderID COMPUTE SUM(UnitPrice), 
       SUM(UnitPriceDiscount) BY SalesOrderID; 
   GO 

   SELECT SalesOrderID, 
       UnitPrice, 
       UnitPriceDiscount, 
       SUM(UnitPrice) AS UnitPrice, 
       SUM(UnitPriceDiscount) AS UnitPriceDiscount 
   FROM Sales.SalesOrderDetail 
   GROUP BY SalesOrderID, 
       UnitPrice, 
       UnitPriceDiscount 
   WITH ROLLUP; 

More information: Discontinued Database Engine Functionality in SQL Server 

Cryptographic provider 

Title: A use of CREATE CRYPTOGRAPHIC PROVIDER or ALTER CRYPTOGRAPHIC 

PROVIDER was found, which is not supported in Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

Category: Issue 

Description 

Azure SQL Managed Instance doesn't support CRYPTOGRAPHIC PROVIDER statements 

because it can't access files. See the Affected Objects section for the specific uses of 

CRYPTOGRAPHIC PROVIDER statements. Objects with 'CREATE CRYPTOGRAPHIC 

PROVIDER' or 'ALTER CRYPTOGRAPHIC PROVIDER' doesn't work correctly after 

migrating to Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

Recommendation 

Review objects with 'CREATE CRYPTOGRAPHIC PROVIDER' or 'ALTER CRYPTOGRAPHIC 

PROVIDER'. In any such objects that are required, remove the uses of these features. 

Alternatively, migrate to SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

More information: Cryptographic provider differences in Azure SQL Managed Instance 

----------------------- Page 34-----------------------

Database compatibility 

Title: Database compatibility level below 100 is not supported 

Category: Warning 

Description 

Database Compatibility Level is a valuable tool to help with database modernization, by 

allowing the SQL Server Database Engine to be upgraded, while keeping connecting 

applications functional status by maintaining the same pre-upgrade Database 

Compatibility Level. Azure SQL Managed Instance doesn't support compatibility levels 

below 100. When the database with compatibility level below 100 is restored on Azure 

SQL Managed Instance, the compatibility level is upgraded to 100. 

Recommendation 

Evaluate if the application functionality is intact when the database compatibility level is 

upgraded to 100 on Azure SQL Managed Instance. Alternatively, migrate to SQL Server 

on Azure VMs. 

More information: Supported compatibility levels in Azure SQL Managed Instance 

Database principal alias 

Title: SYS.DATABASE_PRINCIPAL_ALIASES is no longer supported and has been 

removed. 

Category: Issue 

Description 

 sys.database_principal_aliases is no longer supported and has been removed in Azure 

SQL Managed Instance. 

Recommendation 

Use roles instead of aliases. 

More information: Discontinued Database Engine Functionality in SQL Server 

DISABLE_DEF_CNST_CHK option 

Title: SET option DISABLE_DEF_CNST_CHK is no longer supported and has been 

removed. 

Category: Issue 

----------------------- Page 35-----------------------

Description 

SET option DISABLE_DEF_CNST_CHK is no longer supported and has been removed in 

Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

More information: Discontinued Database Engine Functionality in SQL Server 

FASTFIRSTROW hint 

Title: FASTFIRSTROW query hint is no longer supported and has been removed. 

Category: Warning 

Description 

FASTFIRSTROW query hint is no longer supported and has been removed in Azure SQL 

Managed Instance. 

Recommendation 

Instead of FASTFIRSTROW query hint use OPTION (FAST n). 

More information: Discontinued Database Engine Functionality in SQL Server 

FILESTREAM 

Title: FILESTREAM and FileTable are not supported in Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

Category: Issue 

Description 

The FILESTREAM feature, which allows you to store unstructured data such as text 

documents, images, and videos in NTFS file system, isn't supported in Azure SQL 

Managed Instance. This database can't be migrated as the backup containing 

FILESTREAM filegroups can't be restored on Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

Recommendation 

Upload the unstructured files to Azure Blob storage and store metadata related to these 

files (name, type, URL location, storage key etc.) in Azure SQL Managed Instance. You 

might have to re-engineer your application to enable streaming blobs to and from 

Azure SQL Managed Instance. Alternatively, migrate to SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

More information: Streaming Blobs To and From SQL Azure blog 

Heterogeneous MS DTC 

----------------------- Page 36-----------------------

Title: BEGIN DISTRIBUTED TRANSACTION with non-SQL Server remote server is not 

supported in Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

Category: Issue 

Description 

Distributed transaction started by Transact SQL BEGIN DISTRIBUTED TRANSACTION and 

managed by Microsoft Distributed Transaction Coordinator (MS DTC) isn't supported in 

Azure SQL Managed Instance if the remote server isn't SQL Server. 

Recommendation 

Review affected objects section in Azure Migrate to see all objects using BEGIN 

DISTRIBUTED TRANSACTION. Consider migrating the participant databases to Azure 

SQL Managed Instance where distributed transactions across multiple instances are 

supported. For more information, see Transactions across multiple servers for Azure SQL 

Managed Instance. 

Alternatively, migrate to SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

Homogenous MS DTC 

Title: BEGIN DISTRIBUTED TRANSACTION is supported across multiple servers for 

Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

Category: Issue 

Description 

Distributed transaction started by Transact SQL BEGIN DISTRIBUTED TRANSACTION and 

managed by Microsoft Distributed Transaction Coordinator (MS DTC) is supported 

across multiple servers for Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

Recommendation 

Review affected objects section in Azure Migrate to see all objects using BEGIN 

DISTRIBUTED TRANSACTION. Consider migrating the participant databases to Azure 

SQL Managed Instance where distributed transactions across multiple instances are 

supported. For more information, see Transactions across multiple servers for Azure SQL 

Managed Instance. 

Alternatively, migrate to SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

Linked server (non-SQL provider) 

Title: Linked server with non-SQL Server Provider is not supported in Azure SQL 

Managed Instance. 

----------------------- Page 37-----------------------

Category: Issue 

Description 

Linked servers enable the SQL Server Database Engine to execute commands against 

OLE DB data sources outside of the instance of SQL Server. Linked server with non-SQL 

Server Provider isn't supported in Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

Recommendation 

Azure SQL Managed Instance doesn't support linked server functionality if the remote 

server provider is non-SQL Server like Oracle, Sybase etc. 

The following actions are recommended to eliminate the need for linked servers: 

      Identify the dependent databases from remote non-SQL servers and consider 

      moving these into the database being migrated. 

      Migrate the dependent databases to supported targets like SQL Managed 

      Instance, SQL Database, Azure Synapse, and SQL Server instances. 

      Consider creating linked server between Azure SQL Managed Instance and SQL 

      Server on Azure Virtual Machines (SQL VM). Then from the SQL VM, create a linked 

      server to Oracle, Sybase, etc. This approach does involve two hops but can be used 

      as temporary workaround. 

      Alternatively, migrate to SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

More information: Linked Server differences in Azure SQL Managed Instance 

Merge jo b 

Title: Merge job step is not supported in Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

Category: Warning 

Description 

It is a job step that activates the replication Merge Agent. The Replication Merge Agent 

is a utility executable that applies the initial snapshot held in the database tables to the 

Subscribers. It also merges incremental data changes that occurred at the Publisher after 

the initial snapshot was created, and reconciles conflicts either according to the rules 

you configure, or using a custom resolver you create. Merge job step isn't supported in 

Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

Recommendation 

Review affected objects section in Azure Migrate to see all jobs using Merge job step 

and evaluate if the job step or the affected object can be removed. Alternatively, 

migrate to SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

----------------------- Page 38-----------------------

More information: SQL Server Agent differences in Azure SQL Managed Instance 

SQL Managed Instance database size 

Title: Azure SQL Managed Instance does not support database size greater than 16 TB. 

Category: Issue 

Description 

The size of the database is greater than maximum instance reserved storage. This 

database can't be selected for migration as the size exceeded the allowed limit. 

Recommendation 

Evaluate if the data can be archived compressed or sharded into multiple databases. 

Alternatively, migrate to SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

More information: Hardware characteristics of Azure SQL Managed Instance 

SQL Managed Instance instance size 

Title: Maximum instance storage size in Azure SQL Managed Instance cannot be 

greater than 8 TB. 

Category: Warning 

Description 

The size of all databases is greater than maximum instance reserved storage. 

Recommendation 

Consider migrating the databases to different Azure SQL Managed Instances or to SQL 

Server on Azure Virtual Machines if all the databases must exist on the same instance. 

More information: Hardware characteristics of Azure SQL Managed Instance 

Multiple log files 

Title: Azure SQL Managed Instance does not support multiple log files. 

Category: Issue 

Description 

SQL Server allows a database to log to multiple files. This database has multiple log files, 

which isn't supported in Azure SQL Managed Instance. This database can't be migrated 

as the backup can't be restored on Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

----------------------- Page 39-----------------------

Recommendation 

Azure SQL Managed Instance supports only a single log per database. You need to 

delete all but one of the log files before migrating this database to Azure: 

   SQL 

   ALTER DATABASE [database_name] REMOVE FILE [log_file_name] 

More information: Unsupported database options in Azure SQL Managed Instance 

Next column 

Title: Tables and Columns named NEXT will lead to an error In Azure SQL Managed 

Instance. 

Category: Issue 

Description 

Tables or columns named NEXT were detected. Sequences, introduced in Microsoft SQL 

Server, use the ANSI standard NEXT VALUE FOR function. Tables or columns named 

NEXT and column aliased as VALUE with the ANSI standard AS omitted can cause an 

error. 

Recommendation 

Rewrite statements to include the ANSI standard AS keyword when aliasing a table or 

column. For example, when a column is named NEXT and that column is aliased as 

VALUE, the query SELECT NEXT VALUE FROM TABLE causes an error, and should be 

rewritten as SELECT NEXT AS VALUE FROM TABLE. Similarly, for a table named NEXT and 

aliased as VALUE, the query SELECT Col1 FROM NEXT VALUE causes an error, and should 

be rewritten as SELECT Col1 FROM NEXT AS VALUE. 

Non-ANSI style left outer jo in 

Title: Non-ANSI style left outer join is no longer supported and has been removed. 

Category: Warning 

Description 

Non-ANSI style left outer join is no longer supported and has been removed in Azure 

SQL Managed Instance. 

Recommendation 

Use ANSI join syntax. 

----------------------- Page 40-----------------------

More information: Discontinued Database Engine Functionality in SQL Server 

Non-ANSI style right outer jo in 

Title: Non-ANSI style right outer join is no longer supported and has been removed. 

Category: Warning 

Description 

Non-ANSI style right outer join is no longer supported and has been removed in Azure 

SQL Managed Instance. 

More information: Discontinued Database Engine Functionality in SQL Server 

Recommendation 

Use ANSI join syntax. 

Databases exceed 100 

Title: Azure SQL Managed Instance supports a maximum of 100 databases per 

instance. 

Category: Warning 

Description 

Maximum number of databases supported in Azure SQL Managed Instance is 100, 

unless the instance storage size limit has been reached. 

Recommendation 

Consider migrating the databases to different Azure SQL Managed Instances or to SQL 

Server on Azure Virtual Machines if all the databases must exist on the same instance. 

More information: Azure SQL Managed Instance Resource Limits 

OPENROWSET (non-BLOB data source) 

Title: OpenRowSet used in bulk operation with non-Azure blob storage data source is 

not supported in Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

Category: Issue 

Description 

OPENROWSET supports bulk operations through a built-in BULK provider that enables 

data from a file to be read and returned as a rowset. OPENROWSET with non-Azure blob 

storage data source isn't supported in Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

----------------------- Page 41-----------------------

Recommendation 

Azure SQL Managed Instance can't access file shares and Windows folders, so the files 

must be imported from Azure Blob Storage. Therefore, only blob type DATASOURCE is 

supported in OPENROWSET function. Alternatively, migrate to SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

More information: Bulk Insert and OPENROWSET differences in Azure SQL Managed 

Instance 

OPENROWSET (non-SQL provider) 

Title: OpenRowSet with non-SQL provider is not supported in Azure SQL Managed 

Instance. 

Category: Issue 

Description 

This method is an alternative to accessing tables in a linked server and is a one-time, ad 

hoc method of connecting and accessing remote data by using OLE DB. OpenRowSet 

with non-SQL provider isn't supported in Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

Recommendation 

OPENROWSET function can be used to execute queries only on SQL Server instances 

(either managed, on-premises, or in Virtual Machines). The providers  SQLNCLI, 

SQLNCLI11  SQLOLEDB,  , and  MSOLEDBSQL (recommended) are supported. The  Microsoft OLE 

DB Driver for SQL Server is recommended for new development. 

The recommendation action is to identify the dependent databases from remote non- 

SQL Servers, and consider moving these into the instance being migrated. 

More information: Bulk Insert and OPENROWSET differences in Azure SQL Managed 

Instance 

PowerShell jo b 

Title: PowerShell job step is not supported in Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

Category: Warning 

Description 

It is a job step that runs a PowerShell script. PowerShell job step isn't supported in Azure 

SQL Managed Instance. 

Recommendation 

Review affected objects section in Azure Migrate to see all jobs using PowerShell job 

----------------------- Page 42-----------------------

step and evaluate if the job step or the affected object can be removed. Evaluate if 

Azure Automation can be used. Alternatively, migrate to SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

More information: SQL Server Agent differences in Azure SQL Managed Instance 

Queue Reader jo b 

Title: Queue Reader job step is not supported in Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

Category: Warning 

Description 

It is a job step that activates the replication Queue Reader Agent. The Replication Queue 

Reader Agent is an executable that reads messages stored in a Microsoft SQL Server 

queue or a Microsoft Message Queue and then applies those messages to the Publisher. 

Queue Reader Agent is used with snapshot and transactional publications that allow 

queued updating. Queue Reader job step isn't supported in Azure SQL Managed 

Instance. 

Recommendation 

Review affected objects section in Azure Migrate to see all jobs using Queue Reader job 

step and evaluate if the job step or the affected object can be removed. Alternatively, 

migrate to SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

More information: SQL Server Agent differences in Azure SQL Managed Instance 

RAISERROR 

Title: Legacy style RAISERROR calls should be replaced with modern equivalents. 

Category: Warning 

Description 

RAISERROR calls like the below example are termed as legacy-style because they don't 

include the commas and the parenthesis.  RAISERROR 50001  'this is a test '. This 

method of calling RAISERROR is no longer supported and removed in Azure SQL 

Managed Instance. 

Recommendation 

Rewrite the statement using the current RAISERROR syntax, or evaluate if the modern 

approach of  BEGIN TRY { } END TRY BEGIN CATCH { THROW; } END CATCH is feasible. 

More information: Discontinued Database Engine Functionality in SQL Server 

----------------------- Page 43-----------------------

SQL Mail 

Title: SQL Mail has been no longer supported. 

Category: Warning 

Description 

SQL Mail has been no longer supported and removed in Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

Recommendation 

Use Database Mail. 

More information: Discontinued Database Engine Functionality in SQL Server 

SystemProcedures110 

Title: Detected statements that reference removed system stored procedures that are 

not available in Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

Category: Warning 

Description 

Following unsupported system and extended stored procedures can't be used in Azure 

SQL Managed Instance -  sp_dboption  sp_addserver,   , 

 sp_dropalias sp_activedirectory_obj  sp_activedirectory_scp, ,  , and 

 sp_activedirectory_start . 

Recommendation 

Remove references to unsupported system procedures that have been removed in 

Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

More information: Discontinued Database Engine Functionality in SQL Server 

Transact-SQL jo b 

Title: TSQL job step includes unsupported commands in Azure SQL Managed Instance 

Category: Warning 

Description 

It is a job step that runs Transact-SQL scripts at scheduled time. TSQL job step includes 

unsupported commands, which aren't supported in Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

Recommendation 

Review affected objects section in Azure Migrate to see all jobs that include 

----------------------- Page 44-----------------------

unsupported commands in Azure SQL Managed Instance and evaluate if the job step or 

the affected object can be removed. Alternatively, migrate to SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

More information: SQL Server Agent differences in Azure SQL Managed Instance 

Trace flags 

Title: Trace flags not supported in Azure SQL Managed Instance were found 

Category: Warning 

Description 

Azure SQL Managed Instance supports only limited number of global trace flags. 

Session trace flags aren't supported. 

Recommendation 

Review affected objects section in Azure Migrate to see all trace flags that aren't 

supported in Azure SQL Managed Instance and evaluate if they can be removed. 

Alternatively, migrate to SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

More information: Trace flags 

Windows authentication 

Title: Database users mapped with Windows authentication (integrated security) are 

not supported in Azure SQL Managed Instance 

Category: Warning 

Description 

Azure SQL Managed Instance supports two types of authentication: 

      SQL Authentication, which uses a username and password 

      Microsoft Entra authentication, which uses identities managed by Microsoft Entra 

      ID and is supported for managed and integrated domains. 

Database users mapped with Windows authentication (integrated security) aren't 

supported in Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

Recommendation 

Federate the local Active Directory with Microsoft Entra ID. The Windows identity can 

then be replaced with the equivalent Microsoft Entra identities. Alternatively, migrate to 

SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

More information: SQL Managed Instance security capabilities 

----------------------- Page 45-----------------------

xp_cmdshell 

Title: xp_cmdshell is not supported in Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

Category: Issue 

Description 

xp_cmdshell, which spawns a Windows command shell and passes in a string for 

execution isn't supported in Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

Recommendation 

Review affected objects section in Azure Migrate to see all objects using  xp_cmdshell 

and evaluate if the reference to  xp_cmdshell or the affected object can be removed. 

Consider exploring Azure Automation that delivers cloud-based automation and 

configuration service. Alternatively, migrate to SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

More information: Stored Procedure differences in Azure SQL Managed Instance 

Related content 

      Migration guide: SQL Server to Azure SQL Managed Instance 

      Services and tools available for data migration scenarios 

      Service Tiers in Azure SQL Managed Instance 

      T-SQL differences between SQL Server & Azure SQL Managed Instance 

      Azure total Cost of Ownership Calculator 

      Cloud Adoption Framework for Azure 

      Best practices for costing and sizing workloads migrate to Azure 

      Overview of Database Experimentation Assistant 

Feedback 

Was this page helpful?   Yes       No 

----------------------- Page 46-----------------------

Migration performance: SQL Server to 
Azure SQL Managed Instance performance 
baseline 

10/08/2025 

Applies to:      Azure SQL Managed Instance 

Create a performance baseline to compare the performance of your workload on a SQL 

Managed Instance with your original workload running on SQL Server. 

Create a baseline 

Ideally, performance is similar or better after migration, so it's important to measure and 

record baseline performance values on the source and then compare them to the target 

environment. A performance baseline is a set of parameters that define your average workload 

on your source. 

Select a set of queries that are important to, and representative of your business workload. 

Measure and document the min/average/max duration and CPU usage for these queries, as 

well as performance metrics on the source server, such as average/max CPU usage, 

average/max disk IO latency, throughput, IOPS, average / max page life expectancy, and 

average max size of  tempdb . 

The following resources can help define a performance baseline: 

      Monitor CPU usage 

      Monitor memory usage and determine the amount of memory used by different 

      components such as buffer pool, plan cache, column-store pool,  In-Memory OLTP, etc. In 

      addition, you should find average and peak values of the Page Life Expectancy memory 

      performance counter. 

      Monitor disk IO usage on the source SQL Server instance using the 

      sys.dm_io_virtual_file_stats view or performance counters. 

      Monitor workload and query performance by examining Dynamic Management Views (or 

      Query Store if you're migrating from SQL Server 2016 and later). Identify average duration 

      and CPU usage of the most important queries in your workload. 

Any performance issues on the source SQL Server should be addressed before migration. 

Migrating known issues to any new system might cause unexpected results and invalidate any 

performance comparison. 

----------------------- Page 47-----------------------

Compare performance 

After you define a baseline, compare similar workload performance on the target SQL 

Managed Instance. For accuracy, it's important that the SQL Managed Instance environment is 

comparable to the SQL Server environment as much as possible. 

There are SQL Managed Instance infrastructure differences that make matching performance 

exactly unlikely. Some queries might run faster than expected, while others might be slower. 

The goal of this comparison is to verify that workload performance in the managed instance 

matches the performance on SQL Server (on average) and to identify any critical queries with 

performance that don't match your original performance. 

Performance comparison is likely to result in the following outcomes: 

      Workload performance on the managed instance is aligned or better than the workload 

      performance on your source SQL Server. In this case, you successfully confirm that 

      migration is successful. 

      Most performance parameters and queries in the workload perform as expected, with 

      some exceptions resulting in degraded performance. In this case, identify the differences 

      and their importance. If there are some important queries with degraded performance, 

      investigate whether the underlying SQL plans have changed, or whether queries are 

      hitting resource limits. You can mitigate this by applying some hints on critical queries (for 

      example, change compatibility level, legacy cardinality estimator) either directly or using 

      plan guides. Ensure statistics and indexes are up to date and equivalent in both 

      environments. 

      Most queries are slower on a managed instance compared to your source SQL Server 

      instance. In this case, try to identify the root causes of the difference such as reaching 

      some resource limit such as IO, memory, or instance log rate limits. If there are no 

      resource limits causing the difference, try changing the compatibility level of the database 

      or change database settings like legacy cardinality estimation and rerun the test. Review 

      the recommendations provided by the managed instance or Query Store views to identify 

      the queries with regressed performance. 

SQL Managed Instance has a built-in automatic plan correction feature that is enabled by 

default. This feature ensures that queries that worked fine in the past don't degrade in the 

future. If this feature isn't enabled, run the workload with the old settings so SQL Managed 

Instance can learn the performance baseline. Then, enable the feature and run the workload 

again with the new settings. 

Make changes in the parameters of your test or upgrade to higher service tiers to reach the 

optimal configuration for the workload performance that fits your needs. 

----------------------- Page 48-----------------------

Monitor performance 

SQL Managed Instance provides advanced tools for monitoring and troubleshooting, and you 

should use them to monitor performance on your instance. Some of the key metrics to monitor 

are: 

      CPU usage on the instance to determine if the number of vCores that you provisioned is 

      the right match for your workload. 

      Page-life expectancy on your managed instance to determine if you need  more 

      memory      . 

      Statistics like  INSTANCE_LOG_GOVERNOR or  PAGEIOLATCH that identify storage IO issues, 

      especially on the General Purpose tier, where you might need to preallocate files to get 

      better IO performance. 

Considerations 

When comparing performance, consider the following requirements: 

      Settings match between source and target. Validate that various instance, database, and 

      tempdb settings are equivalent between the two environments. Differences in 

      configuration, compatibility levels, encryption settings, trace flags, etc., can all skew 

      performance. 

      Storage is configured according to best practices       . For example, for General Purpose, 

      you might need to preallocate the size of the files to improve performance. 

      There are key environment differences        that might cause the performance differences 

      between a managed instance and SQL Server. Identify risks relevant to your environment 

      that might contribute to a performance issue. 

      Query store and automatic tuning should be enabled on your SQL Managed Instance as 

      they help you measure workload performance and automatically mitigate potential 

      performance issues. 

Related content 

      How to identify why workload performance on Azure SQL Managed Instance is different 

      than SQL Server? 

      Key causes of performance differences between SQL Managed Instance and SQL Server 

      Storage performance best practices and considerations for Azure SQL Managed Instance 

      (General Purpose) 

----------------------- Page 49-----------------------

Real-time performance monitoring for Azure SQL Managed Instance (this is archived, is 

this the intended target?) 

----------------------- Page 50-----------------------

Custom roles for SQL Server to Azure SQL 
Managed Instance migrations using ADS 

10/14/2025 

This article explains how to set up a custom role in Azure for SQL Server database migrations. 

The custom role is configured with only the permissions required to initiate and execute 

migrations using an instance of Azure Database Migration Service, targeting Azure SQL 

Managed Instance. To provision a new instance of Azure Database Migration Service, the user 

must be assigned either the Owner or Contributor role at the subscription level. 

Use the  AssignableScopes section of the role definition JSON string to control where the 

permissions appear in the Add role assignment UI in the Azure portal. To avoid cluttering the 

UI with extra roles, you might want to define the role at the level of the resource group, or 

even the level of the resource. The resource that the custom role applies to doesn't perform 

the actual role assignment. 

  JSON 

   { 
       "properties": { 
           "roleName": "DmsCustomRoleDemoForMI", 
           "description": "", 
           "assignableScopes": [ 
                
   "/subscriptions/<storageSubscription>/resourceGroups/<storageAccountRG>", 
                
   "/subscriptions/<ManagedInstanceSubscription>/resourceGroups/<managedInstanceRG>", 
               "/subscriptions/<DMSSubscription>/resourceGroups/<dmsServiceRG>" 
           ], 
           "permissions": [ 
               { 
                   "actions": [ 
                       "Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/read", 
                       "Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/listkeys/action", 
                       "Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices/read", 
                       "Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices/write", 
                        
   "Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices/containers/read", 
                       "Microsoft.Sql/managedInstances/read", 
                       "Microsoft.Sql/managedInstances/write", 
                       "Microsoft.Sql/managedInstances/databases/read", 
                       "Microsoft.Sql/managedInstances/databases/write", 
                       "Microsoft.Sql/managedInstances/databases/delete", 
                       "Microsoft.DataMigration/locations/operationResults/read", 
                       "Microsoft.DataMigration/locations/operationStatuses/read", 
                        
   "Microsoft.DataMigration/locations/sqlMigrationServiceOperationResults/read", 
                       "Microsoft.DataMigration/databaseMigrations/write", 

----------------------- Page 51-----------------------

                       "Microsoft.DataMigration/databaseMigrations/read", 
                       "Microsoft.DataMigration/databaseMigrations/delete", 
                       "Microsoft.DataMigration/databaseMigrations/cancel/action", 
                       "Microsoft.DataMigration/databaseMigrations/cutover/action", 
                       "Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/write", 
                       "Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/delete", 
                       "Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/read", 
                        
   "Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/listAuthKeys/action", 
                        
   "Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/regenerateAuthKeys/action", 
                        
   "Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/deleteNode/action", 
                        
   "Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/listMonitoringData/action", 
                        
   "Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/listMigrations/read", 
                        
   "Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/MonitoringData/read", 
                       "Microsoft.DataMigration/SqlMigrationServices/tasks/read", 
                       "Microsoft.DataMigration/SqlMigrationServices/tasks/write", 
                       "Microsoft.DataMigration/SqlMigrationServices/tasks/delete" 
                   ], 
                   "notActions": [], 
                   "dataActions": [ 
                      
   "Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices/containers/blobs/read" 
                   ], 
                   "notDataActions": [] 
               } 
           ] 
       } 
   } 

You can use either the Azure portal, Azure PowerShell, Azure CLI, or Azure REST API to create 

the roles. 

For more information, see Create or update Azure custom roles using the Azure portal and 

Azure custom roles. 

   ７ Note 

   When migrating to Azure SQL Managed Instance or Azure SQL Virtual Machine via Azure 

   portal, make sure the signed in user has Storage Blob Data Reader access on the blob 

   container that contains the backup files. This permission is needed to list folders and files 

   in the blob container during migration setup via Azure portal only. 

----------------------- Page 52-----------------------

Description of permissions needed to migrate to 
Azure SQL Managed Instance 

                                                                                              ﾉ   Expand table 

  Permission action                                                                    Description 

  Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/read                                               Returns the list of 

                                                                                       storage accounts or 
                                                                                       gets the properties for 
                                                                                       the specified storage 
                                                                                       account. 

  Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/listkeys/action                                    Returns the access keys 

                                                                                       for the specified 
                                                                                       storage account. 

  Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices/read                                  List blob services. 

  Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices/write                                 Returns the result of 
                                                                                       put blob service 
                                                                                       properties. 

  Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices/containers/read                       Returns list of 
                                                                                       containers. 

  Microsoft.Sql/managedInstances/read                                                  Return the list of 
                                                                                       managed instances or 
                                                                                       gets the properties for 

                                                                                       the specified managed 
                                                                                       instance. 

  Microsoft.Sql/managedInstances/write                                                 Creates a managed 
                                                                                       instance with the 
                                                                                       specified parameters or 
                                                                                       update the properties 
                                                                                       or tags for the specified 
                                                                                       managed instance. 

  Microsoft.Sql/managedInstances/databases/read                                        Gets existing managed 
                                                                                       database. 

  Microsoft.Sql/managedInstances/databases/write                                       Creates a new database 
                                                                                       or updates an existing 
                                                                                       database. 

  Microsoft.Sql/managedInstances/databases/delete                                      Deletes an existing 
                                                                                       managed database. 

----------------------- Page 53-----------------------

Permission action                                                                     Description 

Microsoft.DataMigration/locations/operationResults/read                               Get the status of a 
                                                                                      long-running operation 
                                                                                      related to a 202 
                                                                                      Accepted response. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/locations/operationStatuses/read                              Get the status of a 
                                                                                      long-running operation 
                                                                                      related to a 202 
                                                                                      Accepted response. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/locations/sqlMigrationServiceOperationResults/read            Retrieve Service 
                                                                                      Operation Results. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/databaseMigrations/write                                      Create or Update 
                                                                                      Database Migration 
                                                                                      resource. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/databaseMigrations/read                                       Retrieve the Database 
                                                                                      Migration resource. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/databaseMigrations/delete                                     Delete Database 
                                                                                      Migration resource. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/databaseMigrations/cancel/action                              Stop ongoing migration 
                                                                                      for the database. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/databaseMigrations/cutover/action                             Cutover online 
                                                                                      migration operation for 
                                                                                      the database. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/write                                    Create a new or change 
                                                                                      properties of existing 
                                                                                      Service 

Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/delete                                   Delete existing Service. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/read                                     Retrieve details of 
                                                                                      Migration Service. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/listAuthKeys/action                      Retrieve the List of 
                                                                                      Authentication Keys. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/regenerateAuthKeys/action                Regenerate the 
                                                                                      Authentication Keys. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/deleteNode/action                        Deregister the IR node. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/listMonitoringData/action                Lists the Monitoring 
                                                                                      Data for all migrations. 

----------------------- Page 54-----------------------

  Permission action                                                                     Description 

  Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/listMigrations/read                      Lists the migrations for 
                                                                                        the user. 

  Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/MonitoringData/read                      Retrieve the Monitoring 
                                                                                        Data. 

  Microsoft.SqlVirtualMachine/sqlVirtualMachines/read                                   Retrieve details of SQL 
                                                                                        virtual machine. 

  Microsoft.SqlVirtualMachine/sqlVirtualMachines/write                                  Create a new or change 
                                                                                        properties of existing 
                                                                                        SQL virtual machine. 

  Microsoft.DataMigration/SqlMigrationServices/tasks/read                               Get Migration Service 
                                                                                        Task details 

  Microsoft.DataMigration/SqlMigrationServices/tasks/write                              Create or Update 
                                                                                        Migration Service Task 

  Microsoft.DataMigration/SqlMigrationServices/tasks/delete                             Delete Migration 
                                                                                        Service Task 

  Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices/containers/blobs/read                  Read blob containers in 
                                                                                        an Azure Storage 
                                                                                        account 

You can get a sample script to create a login and provision it with the necessary permissions, 

for VMware, Hyper-V, or physical servers, using Windows authentication or SQL Server 

authentication. 

Role assignment 

To assign a role to a user or an app ID: 

    1. In the Azure portal, go to the resource. 

    2. In the left menu, select Access control (IAM), and then scroll to find the custom roles you 

       created. 

    3. Select the roles to assign, select the user or app ID, and then save the changes. 

       The user or app ID now appears on the  Role assignments tab. 

Related content 

----------------------- Page 55-----------------------

Database Migration Guide 

----------------------- Page 56-----------------------

Migration guide: SQL Server to Azure SQL 
Managed Instance 

Applies to:      Azure SQL Managed Instance 

In this guide, you learn how to migrate     your user databases from SQL Server to Azure SQL 

Managed Instance. 

Complete pre-migration steps before continuing. 

Migrate 

After you complete the steps for the  pre-migration stage, you're ready to perform the schema 

and data migration. 

Migrate your data using your chosen migration method. 

This section provides general migration steps for the following recommended migration options: 

      SQL Server migration in Azure Arc 

      Azure Database Migration Service (Azure DMS), which offers migration with near-zero 

      downtime 

      Managed Instance link 

      Log Replay Service (LRS) 

      Native RESTORE DATABASE FROM URL, which uses native backups from SQL Server and 

      requires some downtime 

SQL Managed Instance targets user scenarios that require mass database migration from on- 

premises or SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines implementations. It's the optimal choice when 

you need to lift and shift the back end of applications that regularly use instance level and cross- 

database functionalities. If this is your scenario, you can move an entire instance to a 

corresponding environment in Azure without the need to rearchitect your applications. 

To move SQL Server instances, you need to plan carefully: 

      The migration of all databases that need to be collocated (ones running on the same 

      instance). 

      The migration of instance-level objects that your application depends on, including logins, 

      credentials, SQL Server Agent jobs and operators, and server-level triggers. 

----------------------- Page 57-----------------------

SQL Managed Instance is a managed service that allows you to delegate some of the regular 

database administration activities to the platform as they're built in. Therefore, you don't need to 

migrate some instance-level data, such as maintenance jobs for regular backups or Always On 

configuration, as high availability is built in. 

SQL Server migration in Azure Arc 

Migrate SQL Server instances enabled by Azure Arc to SQL Managed Instance through the Azure 

portal. SQL Managed Instance provides a fully managed PaaS solution for lift-and-shift 

migrations. The process includes assessing readiness, selecting a target, migrating data, and 

monitoring progress. 

Two integrated methods are available: 

      Managed Instance link for near real-time replication with minimal downtime, 

      Log Replay Service for continuous backup and restore. 

Microsoft Copilot assists throughout the migration. Migration supports SQL Server 2012 and later 

versions, and automates most steps. 

For more information, see Migration to Azure SQL Managed Instance - SQL Server migration in 

Azure Arc. 

Azure Database Migration Service (Azure DMS) 

This section provides high-level steps to migrate from SQL Server to SQL Managed Instance with 

minimal downtime by using Azure DMS. 

To migrate using DMS from the Azure portal, follow these steps: 

    1. Open the Azure portal     . 

   2. Open Azure DMS and either select the DMS instance if you already created one, or create a 

      new one. 

    3. On the DMS instance dashboard, select Start migration, choose your source server type, set 

      your target server type to Azure SQL Managed Instance, and select the migration backup 

      file storage location and migration mode. 

   4. Provide the source SQL Server tracking details for Azure, such as subscription, resource 

      group, location, and SQL Server instance name. This step creates a SQL Server instance 

----------------------- Page 58-----------------------

      enabled by Azure Arc. 

    5. Provide the target subscription and resource group, then choose the target SQL managed 

       instance. 

    6. Provide the backup location details, such as resource group, storage account, blob 

      container, folder, last backup file (for offline migration mode), and target database. 

    7. Optional: If your backups are on an on-premises network share, download and install self- 

       hosted integration runtime         on a machine that can connect to the source SQL Server, and 

      the location containing the backup files. 

       a. You might have to provide source SQL Server instance details and credentials to connect 

          to it. 

       b. Additionally, select the databases and location of the network SMB file share where 

          backup files are kept and credentials to connect to it. 

    8. Start the database migration and monitor the progress in the Azure portal from your DMS 

       instance monitoring dashboard. 

    9. Complete the cutover. 

       a. Stop all incoming transactions to the source database. 

       b. Make application configuration changes to point to the target database in Azure SQL 

          Managed Instance. 

       c. Take any tail log backups for the source database in the backup location you specify. 

       d. Ensure all database backups have the status Restored in the monitoring details page. 

       e. Select Complete cutover in the monitoring details page. 

For detailed instructions, see Tutorial: Migrate SQL Server to Azure SQL Managed Instance with 

DMS. 

Managed Instance link 

This section provides high-level steps to migrate from SQL Server to Azure SQL Managed 

Instance with minimal downtime by using the Managed Instance link. For detailed instructions, 

see Migrate with the link. 

To migrate with the link, follow these steps: 

    1. Create your target SQL managed instance: Azure portal, PowerShell, Azure CLI. 

    2. Prepare your environment for the link. 

----------------------- Page 59-----------------------

    3. Configure the link with SSMS or scripts. 

   4. Stop the workload. 

    5. Validate data on the target instance. 

    6. Fail over the link. 

Log Replay Service (LRS) 

This section provides high-level steps to migrate from SQL Server to SQL Managed Instance with 

minimal downtime by using the Log Replay Service (LRS). For detailed instructions, review 

Migrate databases from SQL Server by using Log Replay Service. 

To migrate with LRS, follow these steps: 

    1. Create an Azure storage account with a blob container. 

    2. Authenticate to your Blob Storage storage account using a SAS token or a managed identity 

      and validate access. 

    3. Be sure to configure your folder structure correctly if you plan to migrate multiple 

      databases. 

   4. Upload your backups to your storage account by either copying your backups, or taking 

      backups directly using BACKUP TO URL. 

    5. Determine if you want to run LRS in autocomplete or continuous mode. 

    6. Start LRS. 

    7. Monitor migration progress. 

    8. Complete the migration (if in continuous mode). 

Backup and restore 

A key capability of SQL Managed Instance is the ability to natively restore database backup 

( .bak) files stored in Azure Storage     . This feature makes database migration straightforward. 

Backing up and restoring are asynchronous operations, based on the size of your database. 

The following diagram provides a high-level overview of the process: 

                                                                                                         

----------------------- Page 60-----------------------

   ７ Note 

   The time to take the backup, upload it to Azure storage, and perform a native restore 

   operation to SQL Managed Instance depends on the size of the database. Factor in sufficient 

   downtime to accommodate the operation for large databases. 

The following table provides more information about the methods you can use, depending on 

the source SQL Server version you're running: 

                                                                                          ﾉ    Expand table 

 Step                                  SQL Engine and version      Backup/restore method 

  Put backup to Azure Storage          Before 2012 with Service    Upload  .bak file directly to Azure Storage 

                                       Pack 1 CU2 

                                       2012 SP1 CU2 - 2016         Direct backup using deprecated WITH 
                                                                   CREDENTIAL syntax 

                                       2016 and later versions     Direct backup using WITH SAS 
                                                                   CREDENTIAL 

  Restore from Azure Storage to a                                  RESTORE FROM URL with SAS 
  managed instance                                                 CREDENTIAL 

   ） Important 

   When you migrate a database protected with transparent data encryption (TDE) to a SQL 

   managed instance using the native restore option, you need to migrate the corresponding 

   certificate from the SQL Server instance (on-premises, or SQL Server on an Azure VM) before 

   restoring the database. For detailed information, see Migrate a SQL Server TDE certificate 

   to Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

   Restoring system databases isn't supported. To migrate instance-level objects (stored in 

   master or  msdb databases), script them out and run Transact-SQL (T-SQL) scripts on the 

   destination instance. 

To migrate using backup and restore, follow these steps: 

    1. Back up your database to Azure Blob Storage. For example, use backup to url in SQL Server 

      Management Studio. Use the Microsoft Azure Tool             to support databases earlier than SQL 

----------------------- Page 61-----------------------

     Server 2012 with Service Pack 1 CU2. 

   2. Connect to your SQL managed instance using SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS). 

   3. Create a credential using a Shared Access Signature to access your Azure Blob storage 

     account with your database backups. For example: 

       SQL 

       CREATE CREDENTIAL [https://mitutorials.blob.core.windows.net/databases] 
       WITH IDENTITY =  'SHARED ACCESS SIGNATURE', 
            SECRET = '<secret>'; 

   4. Restore the backup from the Azure storage blob container. For example: 

       SQL 

       RESTORE DATABASE [TargetDatabaseName] 
       FROM URL =  
        'https://mitutorials.blob.core.windows.net/databases/WideWorldImporters- 
       Standard.bak'; 

   5. When the restore completes, view the database in Object Explorer within SSMS. 

To learn more about this migration option, see Quickstart: Restore a database to Azure SQL 

Managed Instance with SSMS. 

  ７ Note 

  A database restore operation is asynchronous and can be retried. You might get an error in 

   SSMS if the connection breaks, or a timeout expires. SQL Managed Instance keeps trying to 

   restore the database in the background, and you can track the progress of the restore by 

   using the sys.dm_exec_requests and sys.dm_operation_status views. 

Common migration blockers 

Before starting a migration, review these frequently encountered issues. 

                                                                                 ﾉ  Expand table 

----------------------- Page 62-----------------------

  Issue                 Description 

  Unsupported           Some SQL Server features aren't available in Azure SQL Managed Instance. Run a 
  features              migration assessment to identify blockers before you begin. For a complete list, see T- 
                        SQL differences between SQL Server and Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

 Virtual network        SQL Managed Instance requires a dedicated subnet in a virtual network. 
  configuration         Misconfigured subnets, missing service endpoints, or incorrect network security group 
                        (NSG) rules prevent instance creation or block connectivity. Verify your network 
                        configuration before provisioning the target instance. 

  Login and user        SQL Server logins and database users don't transfer automatically. Script logins from 
  migration             the source instance and recreate them on the target. Pay attention to orphaned users 
                        that might result from SID mismatches. 

  SQL Server Agent      Agent jobs, alerts, and operators aren't migrated with the database. Script and 
 jobs                   recreate them on the target instance after migration. 

 TDE-protected          If your database uses transparent data encryption (TDE), you must migrate the TDE 
  databases             certificate to the target instance before restoring the database. 

  Database size and     Large databases might exceed the resource limits for your chosen service tier. Check 
 throughput limits      that your target configuration can accommodate the database size and I/O 
                        throughput requirements. 

Data sync and cutover 

When you use migration options that continuously replicate or sync data changes from source to 

the target, the source data and schema can change and drift from the target. During data sync, 

ensure that the migration process captures and applies all changes on the source to the target. 

After you verify that data is the same on both source and target, you can cut over from the 

source to the target environment. Plan the cutover process with business and application teams 

to ensure minimal interruption during cutover and that it doesn't affect business continuity. 

   ） Important 

   For details on the specific steps associated with performing a cutover as part of migrations 

   using DMS, see Performing migration cutover. 

Post-migration 

After you successfully complete the migration stage, go through a series of post-migration tasks 

to ensure that everything is functioning smoothly and efficiently. 

----------------------- Page 63-----------------------

The post-migration phase is crucial for reconciling any data accuracy issues, verifying 

completeness, and addressing performance issues with the workload. 

Monitor and remediate applications 

After you migrate to a SQL managed instance, track the application behavior and performance of 

your workload. This process includes the following activities: 

      Compare performance of the workload running on the managed instance with the 

      performance baseline that you created on the source SQL Server instance. 

      Continuously monitor performance of your workload to identify potential issues and 

      improvements. 

Perform tests 

The test approach for database migration consists of the following activities: 

    1. Develop validation tests: To test database migration, use T-SQL queries. Create the 

      validation queries to run against both the source and the target databases. Your validation 

      queries should cover the scope you defined. 

   2. Set up test environment: The test environment should contain a copy of the source 

      database and the target database. Be sure to isolate the test environment. 

   3. Run validation tests: Run the validation tests against the source and the target, then 

      analyze the results. 

   4. Run performance tests: Run performance tests against the source and the target, then 

      analyze and compare the results. 

Use advanced features 

Take advantage of the advanced cloud-based features offered by SQL Managed Instance, such as 

built-in high availability, threat detection, and monitoring and tuning your workload. 

Monitor a large set of SQL managed instances in a centralized manner with Monitor and 

performance tuning in Azure SQL Database and Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

Some SQL Server features are only available when you change the database compatibility level to 

the latest compatibility level. 

----------------------- Page 64-----------------------

Related content 

      Compare SQL data migration tools 

      Services and tools available for data migration scenarios 

      Service Tiers in Azure SQL Managed Instance 

      T-SQL differences between SQL Server and Azure SQL Managed Instance 

      Tutorial: Migrate SQL Server to Azure SQL Managed Instance with DMS 

      Cloud Adoption Framework for Azure 

      Best practices for costing and sizing workloads migrate to Azure 

 Last updated on 04/28/2026 

----------------------- Page 65-----------------------

SQL Server migration in Azure Arc Overview 

Applies to:       SQL Server 

This article provides an overview of SQL Server migration in Azure Arc for SQL Server enabled by 

Azure Arc. 

Overview 

After your SQL Server instance is enabled by Azure Arc, you can assess your SQL Server data 

estate to identify an optimal Azure SQL migration target. Then you can migrate your SQL Server 

databases to Azure directly from the Azure portal. 

When your SQL Server instance is enabled by Azure Arc, you can: 

      Evaluate and assess whether your SQL Server instance is ready to migrate to Azure. 

      Identify potential migration issues, and learn how to mitigate them. 

      Optimize for performance and cost with guidance around service tiers, configuration, and 

      sizing. 

Discovery of SQL Server instances and generation of readiness reports happen automatically 

every weekend, but you can start them manually at any time. The process takes only a few 

minutes to complete. No extra configuration or setup is required. First, choose an appropriate 

Azure SQL target and prepare your environment. Then, you can migrate your SQL Server 

databases to Azure directly from the Azure portal through a fully managed and automated 

process. 

SQL Server migration in Azure Arc is available by default for all SQL Server instances enabled by 

Azure Arc, starting with SQL Server 2012 (11.x). 

Migration targets 

You can migrate to Azure SQL Managed Instance or SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

Microsoft Copilot assisted migration 

On the database migration pane in the Azure portal, Microsoft Copilot is built into the experience 

to assist you throughout the migration process. Interactively chatting with Microsoft Copilot 

----------------------- Page 66-----------------------

searches through the Microsoft knowledgebase to help you along the way as you migrate to 

Azure. 

Microsoft Copilot provides AI-powered assistance to help you make decisions or take actions at 

certain points with prompts such as: 

      How are assessments made? 

      Help me compare. 

      Start the migration. 

      Help me choose the right migration method. 

      Monitor the migration. 

      Complete the migration. 

Select the Copilot Start migration icon on the  Database migration pane to open the Copilot 

chat window: 

Migration dashboard 

The migration dashboard is a convenient view that shows all instances of SQL Server enabled by 

Azure Arc and their migration readiness. SQL Server enabled by Azure Arc automatically produces 

an assessment for migration to Azure. This assessment plays a vital role in the success of your 

cloud migration and modernization journey. With this dashboard, you can track the migration 

----------------------- Page 67-----------------------

journey at scale. The readiness is projected as properties into the Azure management plane, 

which allows the use of organizational, tagging, and querying capabilities native to Azure. 

                                                                                                   

The dashboard provides: 

      An overview of discovered SQL Server instances and databases. 

      An overview of the SQL Server instances with generated assessments. 

      A migration-readiness summary for each Azure SQL offering. 

      Rich filtering capabilities that you can use to tailor the view to your needs. 

 Discover and assess 

SQL Server enabled by Azure Arc automatically produces an assessment for migration to Azure. 

This assessment plays a vital role in the success of your cloud migration and modernization 

journey. Azure Arc simplifies the discovery process and readiness assessment for migration. 

----------------------- Page 68-----------------------

                                                                                                    

Evaluate and measure the readiness of SQL Server for migration to Azure SQL. This process: 

      Discovers and assesses the SQL Server instance and databases. 

      Pinpoints SQL Server workloads that are ready for migration. 

      Identifies potential compatibility issues with the target environment. 

      Assesses migration risks. 

      Provides recommendations to mitigate these risks. 

The assessment: 

      Provides cloud readiness, identifies risks, and offers mitigation strategies. 

      Provides the specific service tier and Azure SQL configuration for each Azure SQL migration 

      target type that best fits the workload needs. 

      Provides retail prices for the suggested configuration for each Azure SQL migration target 

      type. 

      Suggests the best Azure SQL migration target type based on the chosen migration strategy. 

      Is generated automatically. 

      Runs continuously on a default schedule of once per week. 

      Is free and available for all SQL Server editions. 

----------------------- Page 69-----------------------

You can obtain a migration assessment for SQL Servers located anywhere, such as: 

      Your datacenter. 

      Edge site locations, such as retail stores. 

      Public cloud or hosting providers. 

The assessment is available for any instance of SQL Server enabled by Azure Arc. 

Database migration 

On the Database migration pane, you can migrate your SQL Server databases to Azure SQL 

Managed Instance or SQL Server on Azure VMs. The migration process is fully managed and 

automated from the Azure portal. Once you're ready to start, you can use the tiles to assess your 

SQL Server databases, choose a migration target, and start the migration process. 

Database migration guides you through the migration with easy to follow tiles for each step of 

the process: 

                                                                                                    

The Database Migration pane also has a useful summary of the migration status for your 

instance, such as the number of total databases, the recommended target, the number of 

completed migrations, and the number of ongoing migrations: 

----------------------- Page 70-----------------------

                                                                                                 

Related content 

     Track migration journey by using migration dashboard - SQL Server enabled by Azure Arc 

     Assess migration readiness - SQL Server enabled by Azure Arc 

      Prepare environment for a Managed Instance link migration - SQL Server migration in Azure 

     Arc 

      Prepare environment for LRS migration - SQL Server migration in Azure Arc 

     SQL Server enabled by Azure Arc 

      Deployment options for SQL Server enabled by Azure Arc 

 Last updated on 04/16/2026 

----------------------- Page 71-----------------------

Migration overview: SQL Server to SQL 
Server on Azure VMs 

     Summarize this article for me 

Applies to:       SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines 

Learn about the different migration strategies to migrate your SQL Server to SQL Server on 

Azure Virtual Machines (VMs). 

You can migrate SQL Server running on-premises or on: 

      SQL Server on Virtual Machines 

      Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) 

      Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS) 

      Google Compute Engine 

For other migration guides, see Database Migration. 

Overview 

Migrate to SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines (VMs) when you want to use the familiar SQL 

Server environment with OS control, and want to take advantage of cloud-provided features 

such as built-in VM high availability, automated backups, and automated patching. 

Save on costs by bringing your own license with the Azure Hybrid Benefit licensing model or 

extend support for SQL Server 2014 by getting free security updates. 

Choose appropriate target 

Azure Virtual Machines run in many different regions of Azure and also offer various  machine 

sizes and Azure managed disk types. 

When determining the correct size of VM and Storage for your SQL Server workload, refer to 

the Performance Guidelines for SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines.. 

To determine the VM size and storage requirements for all your workloads in your data estate, 

you should size them through a Performance-Based Azure Migrate Assessment. If this isn't an 

available option, see the following article on creating your own baseline for performance         . 

Consideration should also be made on the correct installation and configuration of SQL Server 

on a VM. You should use the Azure SQL virtual machine image gallery, as this allows you to 

----------------------- Page 72-----------------------

create a SQL Server VM with the right version, edition, and operating system. This option also 

registers the Azure VM with the SQL Server resource provider automatically, enabling features 

such as Automated Backups and Automated Patching. 

Migration strategies 

There are two migration strategies to migrate your user databases to an instance of SQL Server 

on Azure VMs: migrate, and lift and shift. 

The appropriate approach for your business typically depends on the following factors: 

      Size and scale of migration 

      Speed of migration 

      Application support for code change 

       Need to change SQL Server Version, Operating System, or both. 

      Supportability life cycle of your existing products 

      Window for application downtime during migration 

The following table describes differences in the two migration strategies: 

                                                                                             ﾉ   Expand table 

  Migration      Description                                          When to use 
  strategy 

  Lift and       Use the lift and shift migration strategy to move    Use for single to large-scale migrations, 
  shift          the entire physical or virtual SQL Server from its   applicable to scenarios such as data 
                 current location onto an instance of SQL Server      center exit. 
                 on Azure VM without any changes to the 
                 operating system, or SQL Server version. To          Minimal to no code changes required 
                 complete a lift and shift migration, see Azure       to user SQL databases or applications, 
                 Migrate.                                             allowing for faster overall migrations. 

                 The source server remains online and services        No extra steps required for migrating 
                 requests while the source and destination server     the Business Intelligence services such 
                 synchronize data allowing for an almost              as SSIS, SSRS, and SSAS. 
                 seamless migration. 

  Migrate        Use a migration strategy when you want to            Use when there's a requirement or 
                 upgrade the target SQL Server and/or operating       desire to migrate to SQL Server on 
                 system version.                                      Azure Virtual Machines, or if there's a 
                                                                      requirement to upgrade legacy SQL 
                 Select an Azure VM from Azure Marketplace or a       Server and/or OS versions that are no 
                 prepared SQL Server image that matches the           longer in support. 
                 source SQL Server version. 
                                                                      Might require some application or user 

----------------------- Page 73-----------------------

  Migration      Description                                           When to use 
  strategy 

                                                                       database changes to support the SQL 
                                                                       Server upgrade. 

                                                                       There might be other considerations 
                                                                       for migrating Business Intelligence 
                                                                       services if in the scope of migration. 

Lift and shift 

The following table details the available method for the  lift and shift migration strategy to 

migrate your SQL Server database to SQL Server on Azure VMs: 

                                                                                              ﾉ   Expand table 

  Method       Minimum          Minimum          Source             Notes 
              source            target           backup size 
              version           version          constraint 

 Azure         SQL Server       SQL Server       Azure VM           Existing SQL Server to be moved as-is to 
  Migrate      2008 SP4         2012 SP4         storage limit      instance of SQL Server on an Azure VM. 
                                                                    Can scale migration workloads of up to 
                                                                    35,000 VMs. 

                                                                    Source servers remain online and 
                                                                    servicing requests during synchronization 

                                                                    of server data, minimizing downtime. 

                                                                    Automation & scripting: Azure Site 
                                                                    Recovery scripts and  Example of scaled 
                                                                    migration and planning for Azure 

   ７ Note 

   It's now possible to lift and shift both your failover cluster instance and availability group 

   solution to SQL Server on Azure VMs using Azure Migrate. 

Migrate 

The recommended migration approach is to take a native SQL Server  backup locally, and then 

copy the file to Azure. This method supports larger databases (>1 TB) for all versions of SQL 

Server starting from 2008 and larger database backups (>1 TB). In SQL Server 2014 and later 

----------------------- Page 74-----------------------

versions, SQL Server backup to URL is the better approach for database smaller than 1 TB that 

have good connectivity to Azure. 

When migrating SQL Server databases to an instance of SQL Server on Azure VMs, it's 

important to choose an approach that suits when you need to cut over to the target server as 

this affects the application downtime window. 

The following table details all available methods to migrate your SQL Server database to SQL 

Server on Azure VMs: 

                                                                                                    ﾉ    Expand table 

  Method                        Minimum          Minimum         Source            Notes 
                                source           target          backup size 
                                version          version         constraint 

  Distributed availability      SQL Server       SQL Server      Azure VM          A distributed availability group is 
  group                         2016             2016            storage limit     a special type of availability 
                                                                                   group that spans two separate 
                                                                                   availability groups. The 
                                                                                   availability groups that 
                                                                                   participate in a distributed 
                                                                                   availability group don't need to 
                                                                                   be in the same location and 
                                                                                   include cross-domain support. 

                                                                                   This method minimizes 
                                                                                   downtime. Use when you have 
                                                                                   an availability group configured 
                                                                                   on-premises. 

                                                                                   Automation & scripting: 
                                                                                   Transact-SQL (T-SQL) 

  Backup to a file              SQL Server       SQL Server      Azure VM          This is a simple and well-tested 
                                2008 SP4         2012 SP4        storage limit     technique for moving databases 
                                                                                   across machines. Use 
                                                                                   compression to minimize backup 
                                                                                   size for transfer. 

                                                                                   Automation & scripting: T-SQL 
                                                                                   and AzCopy to Blob storage 

  Backup to URL                 SQL Server       SQL Server       12.8 TB for      An alternative way to move the 
                                2012 SP1         2012 SP1        SQL Server        backup file to the VM using 
                                CU2              CU2             2016,             Azure storage. Use compression 
                                                                 otherwise 1       to minimize backup size for 
                                                                 TB                transfer. 

----------------------- Page 75-----------------------

Method                       Minimum         Minimum         Source           Notes 
                             source          target          backup size 
                             version         version         constraint 

                                                                              Automation & scripting: T-SQL 
                                                                              or maintenance plan 

SQL Server migration         SQL Server      SQL Server      Azure VM         The SQL Server migration 
component in SQL             2005            2012 SP4        storage limit    component assesses SQL Server 
Server Management                                                             on-premises and then seamlessly 
Studio                                                                        upgrades to later versions of SQL 
                                                                              Server or migrates to SQL Server 
                                                                              on Azure VMs. 

                                                                              Shouldn't be used on 
                                                                              FILESTREAM-enabled user 
                                                                              databases. 

                                                                              Includes capability to migrate 
                                                                              SQL and Windows logins. 

Detach and attach            SQL Server      SQL Server      Azure VM         Use this method when you plan 
                             2008 SP4        2014            storage limit    to store these files using Azure 
                                                                              Blob Storage and attach them to 
                                                                              an instance of SQL Server on an 
                                                                              Azure VM, useful with very large 
                                                                              databases or when the time to 
                                                                              backup and restore is too long. 

                                                                              Automation & scripting: T-SQL 
                                                                              and AzCopy to Blob storage 

Log shipping                 SQL Server      SQL Server      Azure VM         Log shipping replicates 
                             2012 SP4        2012 SP4        storage limit    transactional log files from on- 
                             (Windows        (Windows                         premises on to an instance of 
                             Only)           Only)                            SQL Server on an Azure VM. 

                                                                              This provides minimal downtime 
                                                                              during failover and has less 
                                                                              configuration overhead than 
                                                                              setting up an Always On 
                                                                              availability group. 

                                                                              Automation & scripting: T-SQL 

Convert on-premises          SQL Server      SQL Server      Azure VM         Use when bringing your own 
machine to Hyper-V           2012 or         2012 or         storage limit    SQL Server license, when 
VHDs, upload to Azure        greater         greater                          migrating a database that runs 
Blob storage, and then                                                        on an older version of SQL 
deploy a new virtual                                                          Server, or when migrating system 

----------------------- Page 76-----------------------

  Method                    Minimum       Minimum        Source         Notes 
                            source        target         backup size 
                            version       version        constraint 

  machine using                                                         and user databases together as 
  uploaded VHD                                                          part of the migration of database 
                                                                        dependent on other user 
                                                                        databases and/or system 
                                                                        databases. 

  Ship hard drive using     SQL Server    SQL Server     Azure VM       Use the Windows Import/Export 
 Windows                    2012 or       2012 or        storage limit  Service when manual copy 
  Import/Export Service     greater       greater                       method is too slow, such as with 
                                                                        very large databases 

For large data transfers with limited to no network options, see Data transfer for large datasets 

with low or no network bandwidth. 

    Tip 

   You can lift and shift both your failover cluster instance and availability group solution to 

   SQL Server on Azure VMs using Azure Migrate. 

Considerations 

The following list provides key points to consider when reviewing migration methods: 

      For optimum data transfer performance, migrate databases and files onto an instance of 

      SQL Server on Azure VM using a compressed backup file. For larger databases, in addition 

      to compression, split the backup file into smaller files for increased performance during 

      backup and transfer. 

      If migrating from SQL Server 2014 or higher, consider encrypting the backups to protect 

      data during network transfer. 

      To minimize downtime during database migration, use Always On availability groups. 

      For limited to no network options, use offline migration methods such as backup and 

      restore, or disk transfer services available in Azure. 

      To also change the version of SQL Server on a SQL Server on Azure VM, see change SQL 

      Server edition. 

Business Intelligence 

----------------------- Page 77-----------------------

There might be other considerations when migrating SQL Server Business Intelligence services 

outside the scope of database migrations. 

SQL Server Integration Services 

You can migrate SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) packages and projects in SSISDB to SQL 

Server on Azure VM using one of the following two methods. 

      Backup and restore the SSISDB from the source SQL Server instance to SQL Server on 

     Azure VM. This restores your packages in the SSISDB to the SSIS Catalog. 

      Redeploy your SSIS packages on your target SQL Server on Azure VM using one of the 

      deployment options. 

If you have SSIS packages deployed as package deployment model, you can convert them 

before migration. For more information, see the project conversion tutorial. 

SQL Server Reporting Services 

To migrate your SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) reports to your target SQL Server on 

Azure VM, see Migrate a Reporting Services Installation (Native Mode). 

Alternatively, you can also migrate SSRS reports to paginated reports in Power BI. Use the RDL 

Migration Tool    to help prepare and migrate your reports. Microsoft developed this tool to 

help customers migrate Report Definition Language (RDL) reports from their SSRS servers to 

Power BI. It's available on GitHub, and it documents an end-to-end walkthrough of the 

migration scenario. 

SQL Server Analysis Services 

SQL Server Analysis Services databases (multidimensional or tabular models) can be migrated 

from your source SQL Server to SQL Server on Azure VM using one of the following options: 

      Interactively using SSMS 

      Programmatically using Analysis Management Objects (AMO) 

      By script using XMLA (XML for Analysis) 

See Move an Analysis Services Database to learn more. 

Alternatively, you can consider migrating your on-premises Analysis Services tabular models to 

Azure Analysis Services or to  Power BI Premium by using the new XMLA read/write endpoints. 

----------------------- Page 78-----------------------

Server obje cts 

Depending on the setup in your source SQL Server, there might be other SQL Server features 

that require manual intervention to migrate them to SQL Server on Azure VM by generating 

scripts in Transact-SQL (T-SQL) using SQL Server Management Studio and then running the 

scripts on the target SQL Server on Azure VM. Some of the commonly used features are: 

      Logins and roles 

      Linked servers 

      External Data Sources 

      Agent jobs 

      Alerts 

      Database Mail 

      Replication 

For a complete list of metadata and server objects that you need to move, see Manage 

Metadata When Making a Database Available on Another Server. 

Supported versions 

As you prepare for migrating SQL Server databases to SQL Server on Azure VMs, be sure to 

consider the versions of SQL Server that are supported. For a list of current supported SQL 

Server versions on Azure VMs, see SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

Migration assets 

For more assistance, see the following resources that were developed for real world migration 

projects. 

                                                                                           ﾉ    Expand table 

 Asset                    Description 

  Data workload           This tool provides suggested "best fit" target platforms, cloud readiness, and 
  assessment model        application/database remediation level for a given workload. It offers simple, one- 
  and tool                select calculation and report generation that helps to accelerate large estate 
                          assessments by providing and automated and uniform target platform decision 
                          process. 

  Perfmon data            A tool that collects Perform data to understand baseline performance that helps 
  collection              the migration target recommendation. This tool that uses logman.exe to create 
  automation using        the command that creates, starts, stops, and deletes performance counters set on 
  Logman                  a remote SQL Server. 

----------------------- Page 79-----------------------

 Asset                    Description 

  Multiple-SQL-VM-        This whitepaper outlines the steps to set up multiple Azure virtual machines in a 
 VNet-ILB                 SQL Server Always On Availability Group configuration. 

 Azure virtual            These PowerShell scripts provide a programmatic option to retrieve the list of 
  machines supporting     regions that support Azure virtual machines supporting Ultra SSDs. 
  Ultra SSD per Region 

The Data SQL Engineering team developed these resources. This team's core charter is to 

unblock and accelerate complex modernization for data platform migration projects to 

Microsoft's Azure data platform. 

Related content 

       Migration guide: SQL Server to SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines 

       Services and tools available for data migration scenarios 

      What is Azure SQL? 

      What is SQL Server on Azure Windows Virtual Machines? 

      Cloud Adoption Framework for Azure 

       Best practices for costing and sizing workloads migrate to Azure 

      Change the license model for a SQL virtual machine in Azure 

       Extend support for SQL Server with Azure 

 Last updated on 02/20/2026 

----------------------- Page 80-----------------------

Custom roles for SQL Server to Azure 
Virtual Machines migrations using ADS 

10/14/2025 

This article explains how to set up a custom role in Azure for SQL Server database migrations. 

The custom role is configured with only the permissions required to initiate and execute 

migrations using an instance of Azure Database Migration Service, targeting Azure Virtual 

Machine. To provision a new instance of Azure Database Migration Service, the user must be 

assigned either the Owner or Contributor role at the subscription level. 

Use the  AssignableScopes section of the role definition JSON string to control where the 

permissions appear in the Add role assignment UI in the Azure portal. To avoid cluttering the 

UI with extra roles, you might want to define the role at the level of the resource group, or 

even the level of the resource. The resource that the custom role applies to doesn't perform 

the actual role assignment. 

  JSON 

   { 
       "properties": { 
           "roleName": "DmsCustomRoleDemoForVM", 
           "description": "", 
           "assignableScopes": [ 
                
   "/subscriptions/<storageSubscription>/resourceGroups/<storageAccountRG>", 
                
   "/subscriptions/<ManagedInstanceSubscription>/resourceGroups/<virtualMachineRG>", 
               "/subscriptions/<DMSSubscription>/resourceGroups/<dmsServiceRG>" 
           ], 
           "permissions": [ 
               { 
                   "actions": [ 
                       "Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/read", 
                       "Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/listkeys/action", 
                       "Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices/read", 
                       "Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices/write", 
                        
   "Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices/containers/read", 
                       "Microsoft.SqlVirtualMachine/sqlVirtualMachines/read", 
                       "Microsoft.SqlVirtualMachine/sqlVirtualMachines/write", 
                       "Microsoft.DataMigration/locations/operationResults/read", 
                       "Microsoft.DataMigration/locations/operationStatuses/read", 
                        
   "Microsoft.DataMigration/locations/sqlMigrationServiceOperationResults/read", 
                       "Microsoft.DataMigration/databaseMigrations/write", 
                       "Microsoft.DataMigration/databaseMigrations/read", 
                       "Microsoft.DataMigration/databaseMigrations/delete", 
                       "Microsoft.DataMigration/databaseMigrations/cancel/action", 

----------------------- Page 81-----------------------

                       "Microsoft.DataMigration/databaseMigrations/cutover/action", 
                       "Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/write", 
                       "Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/delete", 
                       "Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/read", 
                        
   "Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/listAuthKeys/action", 
                        
   "Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/regenerateAuthKeys/action", 
                        
   "Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/deleteNode/action", 
                        
   "Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/listMonitoringData/action", 
                        
   "Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/listMigrations/read", 
                        
   "Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/MonitoringData/read", 
                       "Microsoft.DataMigration/SqlMigrationServices/tasks/read", 
                       "Microsoft.DataMigration/SqlMigrationServices/tasks/write", 
                       "Microsoft.DataMigration/SqlMigrationServices/tasks/delete" 
                   ], 
                   "notActions": [], 
                   "dataActions": [ 
                        
   "Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices/containers/blobs/read" 
                   ], 
                   "notDataActions": [] 
               } 
           ] 
       } 
   } 

You can use either the Azure portal, Azure PowerShell, Azure CLI, or Azure REST API to create 

the roles. 

For more information, see Create or update Azure custom roles using the Azure portal and 

Azure custom roles. 

   ７ Note 

   When migrating to Azure SQL Managed Instance or Azure SQL Virtual Machine via Azure 

   portal, make sure the signed in user has Storage Blob Data Reader access on the blob 

   container that contains the backup files. This permission is needed to list folders and files 

   in the blob container during migration setup via Azure portal only. 

Description of permissions needed to migrate to a 
virtual machine 

----------------------- Page 82-----------------------

                                                                                             ﾉ   Expand table 

Permission Action                                                                     Description 

Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/read                                                Returns the list of 

                                                                                      storage accounts or 
                                                                                      gets the properties for 
                                                                                      the specified storage 
                                                                                      account. 

Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/listkeys/action                                     Returns the access keys 

                                                                                      for the specified 
                                                                                      storage account. 

Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices/read                                   List blob services. 

Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices/write                                  Returns the result of 
                                                                                      put blob service 
                                                                                      properties. 

Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices/containers/read                        Returns list of 
                                                                                      containers. 

Microsoft.Sql/managedInstances/read                                                   Return the list of 
                                                                                      managed instances or 
                                                                                      gets the properties for 
                                                                                      the specified managed 
                                                                                      instance. 

Microsoft.Sql/managedInstances/write                                                  Creates a managed 
                                                                                      instance with the 

                                                                                      specified parameters or 
                                                                                      update the properties 
                                                                                      or tags for the specified 
                                                                                      managed instance. 

Microsoft.Sql/managedInstances/databases/read                                         Gets existing managed 
                                                                                      database. 

Microsoft.Sql/managedInstances/databases/write                                        Creates a new database 
                                                                                      or updates an existing 
                                                                                      database. 

Microsoft.Sql/managedInstances/databases/delete                                       Deletes an existing 
                                                                                      managed database. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/locations/operationResults/read                               Get the status of a 
                                                                                      long-running operation 
                                                                                      related to a 202 
                                                                                      Accepted response. 

----------------------- Page 83-----------------------

Permission Action                                                                     Description 

Microsoft.DataMigration/locations/operationStatuses/read                              Get the status of a 
                                                                                      long-running operation 
                                                                                      related to a 202 
                                                                                      Accepted response. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/locations/sqlMigrationServiceOperationResults/read            Retrieve Service 
                                                                                      Operation Results. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/databaseMigrations/write                                      Create or Update 
                                                                                      Database Migration 
                                                                                      resource. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/databaseMigrations/read                                       Retrieve the Database 
                                                                                      Migration resource. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/databaseMigrations/delete                                     Delete Database 
                                                                                      Migration resource. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/databaseMigrations/cancel/action                              Stop ongoing migration 
                                                                                      for the database. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/databaseMigrations/cutover/action                             Cutover online 
                                                                                      migration operation for 
                                                                                      the database. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/write                                    Create a new or change 
                                                                                      properties of existing 
                                                                                      Service 

Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/delete                                   Delete existing Service. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/read                                     Retrieve details of 
                                                                                      Migration Service. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/listAuthKeys/action                      Retrieve the List of 
                                                                                      Authentication Keys. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/regenerateAuthKeys/action                Regenerate the 
                                                                                      Authentication Keys. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/deleteNode/action                        De-register the IR node. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/listMonitoringData/action                Lists the Monitoring 
                                                                                      Data for all migrations. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/listMigrations/read                      Lists the migrations for 
                                                                                      the user. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/MonitoringData/read                      Retrieve the Monitoring 
                                                                                      Data. 

----------------------- Page 84-----------------------

  Permission Action                                                                     Description 

  Microsoft.SqlVirtualMachine/sqlVirtualMachines/read                                   Retrieve details of SQL 
                                                                                        virtual machine. 

  Microsoft.SqlVirtualMachine/sqlVirtualMachines/write                                  Create a new or change 
                                                                                        properties of existing 
                                                                                        SQL virtual machine. 

  Microsoft.DataMigration/SqlMigrationServices/tasks/read                               Get Migration Service 
                                                                                        Task details 

  Microsoft.DataMigration/SqlMigrationServices/tasks/write                              Create or Update 
                                                                                        Migration Service Task 

  Microsoft.DataMigration/SqlMigrationServices/tasks/delete                             Delete Migration 
                                                                                        Service Task 

  Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices/containers/blobs/read                  Read blob containers in 
                                                                                        an Azure Storage 
                                                                                        account 

You can get a sample script to create a login and provision it with the necessary permissions, 

for VMware, Hyper-V, or physical servers, using Windows authentication or SQL Server 

authentication. 

Role assignment 

To assign a role to a user or an app ID: 

    1. In the Azure portal, go to the resource. 

    2. In the left menu, select Access control (IAM), and then scroll to find the custom roles you 

       created. 

    3. Select the roles to assign, select the user or app ID, and then save the changes. 

       The user or app ID now appears on the  Role assignments tab. 

Related content 

       Database Migration Guide 

----------------------- Page 85-----------------------

Migration guide: SQL Server to SQL Server 
on Azure Virtual Machines 

09/17/2025 

Applies to:       SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines 

In this guide, you learn how to migrate      your user databases from SQL Server to an instance 

of SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines by tools and techniques based on your requirements. 

Complete pre-migration steps before continuing. 

Migrate 

After you complete the steps for the  pre-migration stage, you're ready to migrate the user 

databases and components. Migrate your databases by using your preferred  migration 

method. 

The following sections provide options for performing a migration in order of preference: 

      backup and restore 

      detach and attach from a URL 

      convert to a VM, upload to a URL, and deploy as a new VM 

      log shipping 

      ship a hard drive 

      migrate using the SQL Server migration component in SSMS with minimal downtime 

      migrate objects outside user databases 

Detach and attach from a URL 

Detach your database and log files and transfer them to Azure Blob storage. Then attach the 

database from the URL on your Azure VM. Use this method if you want the physical database 

files to reside in Blob storage, which might be useful for very large databases. Use the 

following general steps to migrate a user database using this manual method: 

    1. Detach the database files from the on-premises database instance. 

   2. Copy the detached database files into Azure Blob storage using the AzCopy command- 

      line utility. 

   3. Attach the database files from the Azure URL to the SQL Server instance in the Azure VM. 

Backup and restore 

----------------------- Page 86-----------------------

To perform a standard migration by using backup and restore: 

   1. Set up connectivity to SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines based on your requirements. 

      For more information, see Connect to a SQL Server virtual machine on Azure. 

   2. Pause or stop any applications that are using databases intended for migration. 

   3. Ensure user databases are inactive by using single user mode. 

   4. Perform a full database backup to an on-premises location. 

   5. Copy your on-premises backup files to your VM by using a remote desktop, Azure Data 

      Explorer, or the AzCopy command-line utility. (Greater than 2-TB backups are 

      recommended.) 

   6. Restore full database backups to the SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines. 

Convert to a VM, upload to a URL, and deploy as a new VM 

Use this method to migrate all system and user databases in an on-premises SQL Server 

instance to an Azure virtual machine. Use the following general steps to migrate an entire SQL 

Server instance using this manual method: 

   1. Convert physical or virtual machines to Hyper-V VHDs. 

   2. Upload VHD files to Azure Storage by using the Add-AzureVHD cmdlet. 

   3. Deploy a new virtual machine by using the uploaded VHD. 

  ７ Note 

  To migrate an entire application, consider using Azure Site Recovery. 

Log shipping 

Log shipping replicates transactional log files from on-premises on to an instance of SQL 

Server on an Azure VM. This option provides minimal downtime during failover and has less 

configuration overhead than setting up an Always On availability group. 

For more information, see Log Shipping Tables and Stored Procedures. 

Ship a hard drive 

Use the Windows Import/Export Service method to transfer large amounts of file data to Azure 

Blob storage in situations where uploading over the network is prohibitively expensive or not 

----------------------- Page 87-----------------------

feasible. With this service, you send one or more hard drives containing that data to an Azure 

data center where your data will be uploaded to your storage account. 

Migrate using the SQL Server migration component in SQL 
Server Management Studio (minimal downtime) 

The migration component in SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) checks upgrade and 

compatibility issues from lower versions of SQL Server to higher versions of SQL Server, 

running on-premises and on other virtual machine (VM) environments. 

The migration component finds compatibility issues related to breaking changes, behavior 

changes, deprecated features, and other information. 

      The report also provides a feature parity check if you want to migrate from one cross- 

      platform database to another. 

      The upgrade adviser assessment report provides the effect of objects, the possible cause, 

      and remediation steps. 

For more information, see Use the SQL Server migration component in SQL Server 

Management Studio. 

Migrate obj ects outside user databases 

More SQL Server objects might be required for the seamless operation of your user databases 

post migration. 

The following table provides a list of components and recommended migration methods that 

can be completed before or after migration of your user databases. 

                                                                                       ﾉ    Expand table 

  Feature             Component             Migration methods 

  Databases           Model                 Script with SQL Server Management Studio. 

                      The  tempdb           Plan to move  tempdb onto Azure VM temporary disk (SSD) for 

                      database              best performance. Be sure to pick a VM size that has a 
                                            sufficient local SSD to accommodate your  tempdb . 

                      User databases with   Use the Backup and restore methods for migration. The SQL 
                      FILESTREAM            Server migration component in SQL Server Management 
                                            Studio doesn't support databases with FILESTREAM. 

 Security             SQL Server and        Use the SQL Server migration component in SQL Server 
                      Windows logins        Management Studio to migrate user logins. 

----------------------- Page 88-----------------------

  Feature               Component               Migration methods 

                        SQL Server roles        Script with SQL Server Management Studio. 

                        Cryptographic           Recommend converting to use Azure Key Vault. This 
                        providers               procedure uses the SQL IaaS Agent extension. 

  Server objects        Backup devices          Replace with database backup by using Azure Backup, or write 
                                                backups to Azure Storage (SQL Server 2012 SP1 CU2 +). This 
                                                procedure uses the SQL IaaS Agent extension. 

                        Linked servers          Script with SQL Server Management Studio. 

                        Server triggers         Script with SQL Server Management Studio. 

  Replication           Local publications      Script with SQL Server Management Studio. 

                        Local subscribers       Script with SQL Server Management Studio. 

  PolyBase              PolyBase                Script with SQL Server Management Studio. 

  Management            Database mail           Script with SQL Server Management Studio. 

  SQL Server Agent      Jobs                    Script with SQL Server Management Studio. 

                        Alerts                  Script with SQL Server Management Studio. 

                        Operators               Script with SQL Server Management Studio. 

                        Proxies                 Script with SQL Server Management Studio. 

  Operating system      Files, file shares      Make a note of any other files or file shares that are used by 
                                                your SQL servers and replicate on the Azure Virtual Machines 
                                                target. 

Post-migration 

After you successfully complete the migration stage, you need to complete a series of post- 

migration tasks to ensure that everything is functioning as smoothly and efficiently as possible. 

Remediate applications 

After the data is migrated to the target environment, all the applications that formerly 

consumed the source need to start consuming the target. Accomplishing this task might 

require changes to the applications in some cases. 

Apply any fixes recommended by the SQL Server migration component to user databases. You 

need to script these fixes to ensure consistency and allow for automation. 

----------------------- Page 89-----------------------

Perform tests 

The test approach to database migration consists of the following activities: 

   1. Develop validation tests: To test the database migration, you need to use SQL queries. 

      Create validation queries to run against both the source and target databases. Your 

      validation queries should cover the scope you've defined. 

   2. Set up a test environment: The test environment should contain a copy of the source 

      database and the target database. Be sure to isolate the test environment. 

   3. Run validation tests: Run validation tests against the source and the target, and then 

      analyze the results. 

   4. Run performance tests: Run performance tests against the source and target, and then 

      analyze and compare the results. 

Optimize 

The post-migration phase is crucial for reconciling any data accuracy issues, verifying 

completeness, and addressing potential performance issues with the workload. 

For more information about these issues and the steps to mitigate them, see: 

      Post-migration validation and optimization guide 

      Checklist: Best practices for SQL Server on Azure VMs 

      Azure cost optimization center 

Related content 

      Azure global infrastructure center 

      Services and tools available for data migration scenarios 

      What is Azure SQL? 

      What is SQL Server on Azure Windows Virtual Machines? 

      Cloud Adoption Framework for Azure 

      Best practices for costing and sizing workloads for migration to Azure 

      Change the license model for a SQL virtual machine in Azure 

      Extend support for SQL Server with Azure 

----------------------- Page 90-----------------------

Tutorial: Migrate SQL Server to SQL Server 
on an Azure Virtual Machine with Azure 
DMS (offline) 

     Summarize this article for me 

You can use Azure Database Migration Service (Azure DMS) through the Azure portal to 

migrate databases from an on-premises instance of SQL Server to What is SQL Server on Azure 

Windows Virtual Machines? (Azure VM) with minimal downtime. 

For database migration methods that might require some manual configuration, see SQL 

Server instance migration to SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines. 

In this tutorial, you migrate the  AdventureWorks2025 database from an on-premises instance of 

SQL Server to a SQL Server on Azure VM with minimal downtime, using Azure DMS. 

   ７ Note 

   This tutorial uses offline migration mode, which includes some acceptable downtime 

   during the migration process. For online migration options, see Tutorial: Migrate SQL 

   Server to SQL Server on an Azure Virtual Machine with Azure DMS (online). 

In this tutorial, you learn how to: 

 ＂   Launch the Migrate to Azure SQL wizard in the Azure portal. 

 ＂   Specify details of your source SQL Server, backup location, and your target SQL Server on 

     Azure VM. 

 ＂   Configure the wizard to access source server and backups. 

 ＂   Start and monitor the progress for your migration. 

 ＂   Perform the migration cutover when you're ready. 

Migration options 

The following section describes how to use Azure Database Migration Service with the Azure 

SQL migration extension, or in the Azure portal. 

Prerequisites 

Before you begin the tutorial: 

----------------------- Page 91-----------------------

Ensure that you can access the Azure portal      . 

Make sure that the Microsoft.DataMigration resource provider is  registered in your 

subscription. 

Have an Azure account that's assigned to one of the following built-in roles: 

   Contributor for the target instance of SQL Server on an Azure VM, and for the storage 

   account where you upload your database backup files from a Server Message Block 

   (SMB) network share. 

   Reader role for the Azure resource group that contains the target instance of SQL 

   Server on an Azure VM or for your Azure Storage account. 

   Owner or Contributor role for the Azure subscription. 

   As an alternative to using one of these built-in roles, you can assign custom roles. 

When you use the Azure portal to migrate, the signed-in user must have Storage Blob 

Data Reader access on the blob container that holds the backup files, to be able to list 

files and folders during migration setup. 

Create a target instance of SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines. 

If you have an existing Azure VM, register it with the SQL Server IaaS Agent extension in 

Full management mode. 

Ensure that the logins you use to connect to the source SQL Server instance are members 

of the sysadmin server role, or have  CONTROL SERVER permission. 

Provide an SMB network share, Azure Storage account file share, or Azure Storage 

account blob container that contains your full database backup files and subsequent 

transaction log backup files. Azure DMS uses the backup location during database 

migration. 

   Always use a dedicated storage account for migration. Sharing it with other workloads 

   can lead to conflicts and security risks. 

   Once migration is done, either rotate the Storage Account Key to keep backups secure, 

   or delete the storage account if it's no longer needed. 

   Azure DMS doesn't take database backups, and doesn't initiate any database backups 

   on your behalf. Instead, the service uses existing database backup files for the 

   migration. 

----------------------- Page 92-----------------------

   If your database backup files are in an SMB network share, create an Azure Storage 

   account that allows Azure DMS to upload the database backup files, and to migrate 

   databases. Make sure you create the Azure Storage account in the same region where 

   you create your instance of Azure DMS. 

   You can write each backup to either a separate backup file or to multiple backup files. 

   Appending multiple backups such as full and transaction logs into a single backup 

   media isn't supported. 

   You can provide compressed backups to reduce the likelihood of experiencing 

   potential issues associated with migrating large backups. 

Ensure that the service account running the source SQL Server instance has read and 

write permissions on the SMB network share that contains database backup files. 

If you're migrating a database protected by transparent data encryption (TDE), migrate 

the certificate from the source SQL Server instance to SQL Server on an Azure VM before 

you migrate data. For more information, see  Move a TDE protected database to another 

SQL Server. 

    Tip 

   If your database contains sensitive data protected by Always Encrypted, the 

   migration process automatically migrates your Always Encrypted keys to your target 

   instance of SQL Server on an Azure VM. 

If your database backups are on a network file share, provide a computer on which you 

can install a self-hosted integration runtime to access and migrate database backups. The 

migration wizard gives you the download link and authentication keys to download and 

install your self-hosted integration runtime. 

In preparation for the migration, ensure that the computer on which you install the self- 

hosted integration runtime has the following outbound firewall rules and domain names 

enabled: 

                                                                                   ﾉ   Expand table 

  Domain names                          Outbound      Description 
                                        port 

  Public cloud:  {datafactory}.         443           Required by the self-hosted integration 
  {region}.datafactory.azure.net                      runtime to connect to Azure DMS. 
  or *.frontend.clouddatahub.net                      For a newly created data factory in a public 
                                                      cloud, locate the fully qualified domain name 

----------------------- Page 93-----------------------

        Domain names                            Outbound      Description 
                                                port 

        Azure Government:  {datafactory}.                     (FQDN) from your self-hosted integration 
        {region}.datafactory.azure.us                         runtime key, in the format  {datafactory}. 

        Microsoft Azure operated by                           {region}.datafactory.azure.net . 

        21Vianet:  {datafactory}.                             For an existing data factory, if you don't see 
        {region}.datafactory.azure.cn                         the FQDN in your self-hosted integration key, 
                                                              use  *.frontend.clouddatahub.net instead. 

        download.microsoft.com                  443           Required by the self-hosted integration 
                                                              runtime for downloading the updates. If you 
                                                              disable autoupdate, you can skip configuring 
                                                              this domain. 

        *.core.windows.net                      443           Used by the self-hosted integration runtime 
                                                              that connects to the Azure Storage account to 
                                                              upload database backups from your network 
                                                              share 

          Tip 

         If you already store your database backup files in an Azure Storage account, you 

         don't need a self-hosted integration runtime during the migration process. 

      If you use a self-hosted integration runtime, make sure that the computer on which the 

      runtime is installed can connect to the source SQL Server instance and the network file 

      share where backup files are located. 

      Enable outbound port 445 to allow access to the network file share. For more information, 

      see Self-hosted integration runtime for database migrations. 

      If you're using Azure DMS for the first time, make sure that the  Microsoft.DataMigration 

      resource provider is registered in your subscription. 

Start a new migration 

This tutorial describes an offline migration from SQL Server to SQL Server on an Azure VM. 

To start a new migration: 

    1. Go to Azure Database Migration Service           in the Azure portal. Use  +Create to create a 

      new instance of Database Migration Service, or select an existing instance. Then, go to 

      your Database Migration Service instance. 

----------------------- Page 94-----------------------

2. On the Overview pane of your Azure DMS instance, select  New migration. 

3. Under Select new migration scenario, choose your source, target server type, backup file 

   storage location, migration mode as Offline migration, and choose Select. 

   Your database backups can be located either on an on-premises network share or in an 

   Azure Storage blob container. 

                                                                                                   

   In offline migration mode, the source SQL Server database shouldn't be used for write 

   activity while database backup files are restored on the target instance of SQL Server on 

   an Azure VM. Application downtime persists from the start of the migration process until 

   it's finished. 

4. On the Azure SQL Virtual Machine Online Blob Migration Wizard, follow these steps: 

----------------------- Page 95-----------------------

a. On the Source details tab, enter details for the source SQL Server instance, then select 

   Next: Connect to source SQL Server. 

b. On the Select migration target tab, enter details for the subscription, resource group, 

  and target SQL Server VM. Then select Next: Data source configuration. 

                                                                                        

        Always use a dedicated storage account for migration. Sharing it with other 

        workloads can lead to conflicts and security risks. 

        Once migration is done, either rotate the Storage Account Key to keep backups 

        secure, or delete the storage account if it's no longer needed. 

        Azure DMS doesn't take database backups, and doesn't initiate any database 

        backups on your behalf. Instead, the service uses existing database backup files 

        for the migration. 

        If your database backup files are in an SMB network share, create an Azure 

        Storage account that allows Azure DMS to upload the database backup files, and 

        to migrate databases. Make sure you create the Azure Storage account in the 

        same region where you create your instance of Azure DMS. 

        You can write each backup to either a separate backup file or to multiple backup 

        files. Appending multiple backups such as full and transaction logs into a single 

        backup media isn't supported. 

        You can provide compressed backups to reduce the likelihood of experiencing 

        potential issues associated with migrating large backups. 

c. In the Data source configuration step, select the location of your database backups. 

  Your database backups can be located either on an on-premises network share or in an 

----------------------- Page 96-----------------------

Azure Storage blob container. 

If you provide your database backups in an on-premises network share, set up a self- 

hosted integration runtime in the next step of the wizard. You need a self-hosted 

integration runtime to access your source database backups, check the validity of the 

backup set, and upload backups to Azure storage account. If your database backups 

are already in an Azure storage blob container, you don't need a self-hosted 

integration runtime. 

       For backups that are stored in an Azure Storage blob container, enter or select 

      the following information: 

                                                                                   ﾉ   Expand table 

        Name                      Description 

        Resource group            The resource group where backup files are located. 

        Storage account           The storage account where backup files are located. 
        details 

        Blob container            The blob container where backup files are located. 

        Folder                    The folder where backup files are located. 

        Last Backup File          The file name of the last backup of the database you're 
                                  migrating. 

        Target database           You can modify the target database name during the migration 
        name                      process. 

       If loopback check functionality is enabled and the source SQL Server and file 

      share are on the same computer, the source can't access the file share with the 

       FQDN. To fix this issue, disable loopback check functionality. 

                                                                                                 

----------------------- Page 97-----------------------

                 For backups that are located on a network share, enter the following additional 

                 information on the respective pages. 

                                                                                              ﾉ    Expand table 

                  Name                            Description 

                  Source server name              The FQDN or IP of the source server. Ensure that the service 
                                                  account running the source SQL Server instance has read 
                                                  privileges on the network share. 

                  Authentication Type             Select the authentication type: SQL or Windows 

                  Source Credentials -            The credential (Windows and SQL authentication) to 
                  Username                        connect to the source SQL Server instance and validate the 
                                                  backup files. 

                  Source Credentials -            The credential (Windows and SQL authentication) to 
                  Password                        connect to the source SQL Server instance and validate the 
                                                  backup files. 

                  Network share location          The network share location that contains the full and 
                  that contains backups           transaction log backup files. The migration process 
                                                  automatically ignores any invalid files or backup files in the 
                                                  network share that don't belong to the valid backup set. 

                  Windows user account            The Windows credential (username) that has read access to 
                  with read access to the         the network share to retrieve the backup files. 
                  network share location 

                  Password                        The Windows credential (password) that has read access to 
                                                  the network share to retrieve the backup files. 

                  Target database name            You can modify the target database name during the 
                                                  migration process. 

Backup storage scenarios 

Make sure your resources can access the Azure Storage account. Depending on your database 

backup location and desired storage account network settings, refer to the following table for 

the various migration scenarios and network configurations: 

                                                                                              ﾉ    Expand table 

  Scenario                                    SMB network share                Azure Storage account 
                                                                               container 

  Enabled from all networks                   No extra steps                   No extra steps 

----------------------- Page 98-----------------------

 Scenario                                  SMB network share             Azure Storage account 
                                                                         container 

  Enabled from selected virtual            On-premises self-hosted        Backups stored in Azure 
  networks and IP addresses                integration runtime (SHIR)     Storage container 

  Enabled from selected virtual            Azure VM self-hosted           Backups stored in Azure 
  networks and IP addresses + private      integration runtime (SHIR)     Storage container (Private 
 endpoint                                                                 endpoint) 

  On-premises SHIR 

   On-premises self-hosted integration runtime (SHIR) 

   If you install your SHIR on your on-premises network, follow these steps: 

      1. Connect to the Azure portal from the SHIR machine. 

      2. Open your Azure Storage account, and go to the  Networking pane. 

      3. Make sure Public network access is set to  Enabled from selected virtual networks 

         and IP addresses. 

      4. In the Firewall section, select the Add your client IP address checkbox. 

      5. Enter the client IP address of the host machine, and select Save. 

Create a Database Migration Service instance 

Step 1: In the Azure portal     , navigate to the Azure Database Migration Service page. Create a 

new instance of Azure Database Migration Service, or reuse an existing instance that you 

created earlier. 

Use an existing instance of Database Migration Service 

To use an existing instance of Database Migration Service: 

      On Azure portal, under Azure Database Migration Services, select an existing instance of 

      Database Migration Service that you want to use, ensuring that it's present in right 

      Resource Group and region. 

----------------------- Page 99-----------------------

                                                                                      

Create a new instance of Database Migration Service 

To create a new instance of Database Migration Service: 

   1. On Azure portal, under Azure Database Migration Service, select Create. 

                                                                                      

   2. In Select migration scenario and Database Migration Service, select the desired input 

     like Source and Target server type, choose Database Migration Service and choose 

     Select. 

----------------------- Page 100-----------------------

3. On the next screen Create Data Migration Service, select your subscription and resource 

  group, then select Location, and enter the Database Migration Service name. Select 

  Review + Create. This creates the Azure Database Migration Service. 

----------------------- Page 101-----------------------

4. If the self-hosted integration runtime (SHIR) is required, on the overview page of your 

   Database Migration Service and under Settings, select Integration runtime, and complete 

  the following steps: 

   a. Select Configure integration runtime and choose the  Download and install 

     integration runtime     link to open the download link in a web browser. Download the 

     integration runtime, and then install it on a computer that meets the prerequisites for 

     connecting to the source SQL Server instance. For more information, see Self-hosted 

     integration runtime for database migrations. 

----------------------- Page 102-----------------------

                                                                                    

  When installation is finished, Microsoft Integration Runtime Configuration Manager 

  automatically opens to begin the registration process. 

b. In the Authentication key table, copy one of the authentication keys that are provided 

  in the wizard and paste it in Microsoft Integration Runtime Configuration Manager. 

                                                                                    

  If the authentication key is valid, a green check icon appears in Integration Runtime 

  Configuration Manager. A green check indicates that you can continue to  Register. 

----------------------- Page 103-----------------------

        After you register the self-hosted integration runtime, close Microsoft Integration 

        Runtime Configuration Manager. It might take several minutes to reflect the Node 

        details on Azure portal for Database Migration Service, under Settings > Integration 

        runtime. 

                                                                                            

           ７ Note 

           For more information about the self-hosted integration runtime, see Create and 

           configure a self-hosted integration runtime. 

Start the database migration 

On the Database migration summary tab, review the details, then select Start migration. The 

service starts the database migration and automatically takes you back to the Azure DMS 

dashboard. 

----------------------- Page 104-----------------------

                                                                                         

Monitor the database migration 

   1. To monitor your database migration, on the Overview pane of your DMS instance, select 

     Monitor migrations. 

   2. Under the Migrations tab, you can track migrations that are in progress, completed, and 

     failed (if any), or you can view all database migrations. In the menu bar, select  Refresh to 

     update the migration status. 

----------------------- Page 105-----------------------

                                                                                                       

Azure DMS returns the latest known migration status each time migration status refreshes. The 

following table describes possible statuses: 

                                                                                         ﾉ   Expand table 

  Status       Description 

 Arrived       The backup file arrived in the source backup location and was validated. 

  Uploading    The integration runtime is uploading the backup file to Azure storage. 

  Uploaded     The backup file was uploaded to Azure storage. 

  Restoring    The service is restoring the backup file to SQL Server on an Azure VM. 

  Restored     The backup file was successfully restored on SQL Server on an Azure VM. 

  Canceled     The migration process was canceled. 

  Ignored      The backup file was ignored because it doesn't belong to a valid database backup chain. 

After all database backups are restored on the instance of SQL Server on an Azure VM, Azure 

DMS initiates an automatic migration cutover to ensure that the migrated database is ready to 

use. The migration status changes from In progress to Succeeded. 

Limitations 

If you migrate a single database, you must place the database backups in a flat-file structure 

inside a database folder (including container root folder). You can't nest these folders, as 

nesting isn't supported. 

If you migrate multiple databases using the same Azure Blob Storage container, you must 

place backup files for different databases in separate folders inside the container. 

You can't overwrite existing databases in your target SQL Server on an Azure VM using DMS. 

Azure DMS doesn't support configuring high availability and disaster recovery on your target 

to match source topology. 

----------------------- Page 106-----------------------

The following server objects aren't supported: 

      SQL Server Agent jobs 

      Credentials 

      SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) packages 

      Server audit 

You can't use an existing self-hosted integration runtime created from Azure Data Factory 

(ADF) for database migrations with DMS. 

VMs with target versions of SQL Server 2008 and older aren't supported when migrating to 

SQL Server on an Azure VM. 

If you use a VM with SQL Server 2012 or SQL Server 2014, you need to store your source 

database backup files on an Azure Storage blob container instead of using the network share 

option. Store the backup files as page blobs since block blobs are only supported in SQL Server 

2016 and later versions. 

You must make sure the SQL Server IaaS Agent Extension in the target Azure VM is in  Full 

mode instead of Lightweight mode. 

Migration to Azure SQL VM using DMS uses SQL Server IaaS agent internally. SQL Server IaaS 

Agent Extension only supports management of default server instance or single named 

instance. 

You can migrate a maximum of 100 databases to the same Azure VM as the target using one 

or more migrations simultaneously. Moreover, once a migration with 100 databases finishes, 

wait for at least 30 minutes before starting a new migration to the same SQL Server on an 

Azure VM as the target. Also, every migration operation (start migration, cutover) for each 

database takes a few minutes sequentially. For example, to migrate 100 databases, it might 

take approximately 200 (2 x 100) minutes to create the migration queues and approximately 

100 (1 x 100) minutes to cutover all 100 databases (excluding backup and restore timing). 

Therefore, the migration becomes slower as the number of databases increases. You should 

either schedule a longer migration window in advance based on rigorous migration testing, or 

partition large numbers of databases into batches when migrating them to SQL Server on an 

Azure VM. 

Apart from configuring the Networking/Firewall of your Azure Storage account to allow your 

VM to access backup files, you also need to configure the Networking/Firewall of your SQL 

Server on an Azure VM to allow outbound connection to your storage account. 

You need to keep the target Azure VM powered on while the SQL Server migration is in 

progress. Also, when creating a new migration, failover or cancel the migration. 

----------------------- Page 107-----------------------

Possible error messages 

Login failed for user 'NT Service\SQLIaaSExtensionQuery 

Error:  Login failed for user  'NT Service\SQLIaaSExtensionQuery 

Reason: SQL Server instance is in single-user mode. One possible reason is the target SQL 

Server VM is in upgrade mode. 

Solution: Wait for the target SQL Server VM to exit the upgrade mode, and start migration 

again. 

Failed to create restore j ob 

Error:  Ext_RestoreSettingsError, message: Failed to create restore job.;Cannot create file 

'F:\data\XXX.mdf ' because it already exists. 

Solution: Connect to the target SQL Server VM and delete the  XXX.mdf  file. Then, start 

migration again. 

Related content 

      Migrate a SQL Server database to SQL Server on a virtual machine 

      What is SQL Server on Azure Windows Virtual Machines? 

      Connect to a SQL Server virtual machine on Azure 

      Migrate a database to SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines by using the T-SQL RESTORE 

      command 

 Last updated on 02/20/2026 

----------------------- Page 108-----------------------

Tutorial: Migrate SQL Server to SQL Server 
on an Azure Virtual Machine with Azure 
DMS (online) 

     Summarize this article for me 

You can use Azure Database Migration Service (Azure DMS) through the Azure portal to 

perform an online database migration from an on-premises instance of SQL Server to What is 

SQL Server on Azure Windows Virtual Machines? (Azure VM). 

   ７ Note 

   This tutorial uses online migration mode. For offline migration options, see Tutorial: 

   Migrate SQL Server to SQL Server on an Azure Virtual Machine with Azure DMS 

   (offline). 

In this tutorial, you learn how to: 

 ＂   Launch the Migrate to Azure SQL wizard in the Azure portal. 

 ＂   Specify details of your source SQL Server, backup location, and your target SQL Server on 

     Azure VM. 

 ＂   Configure the wizard to access source server and backups. 

 ＂   Start and monitor the progress for your migration. 

 ＂   Perform the migration cutover when you're ready. 

Migration options 

The following section describes how to use Azure Database Migration Service with the Azure 

SQL migration extension, or in the Azure portal. 

Prerequisites 

Before you begin the tutorial: 

      Ensure that you can access the Azure portal      . 

      Make sure that the Microsoft.DataMigration resource provider is  registered in your 

      subscription. 

      Have an Azure account that's assigned to one of the following built-in roles: 

----------------------- Page 109-----------------------

   Contributor for the target instance of SQL Server on an Azure VM, and for the storage 

   account where you upload your database backup files from a Server Message Block 

   (SMB) network share. 

   Reader role for the Azure resource group that contains the target instance of SQL 

   Server on an Azure VM or for your Azure Storage account. 

   Owner or Contributor role for the Azure subscription. 

   As an alternative to using one of these built-in roles, you can assign custom roles. 

When you use the Azure portal to migrate, the signed-in user must have Storage Blob 

Data Reader access on the blob container that holds the backup files, to be able to list 

files and folders during migration setup. 

Create a target instance of SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines. 

If you have an existing Azure VM, register it with the SQL Server IaaS Agent extension in 

Full management mode. 

Ensure that the logins you use to connect to the source SQL Server instance are members 

of the sysadmin server role, or have  CONTROL SERVER permission. 

Provide an SMB network share, Azure Storage account file share, or Azure Storage 

account blob container that contains your full database backup files and subsequent 

transaction log backup files. Azure DMS uses the backup location during database 

migration. 

   Always use a dedicated storage account for migration. Sharing it with other workloads 

   can lead to conflicts and security risks. 

   Once migration is done, either rotate the Storage Account Key to keep backups secure, 

   or delete the storage account if it's no longer needed. 

   Azure DMS doesn't take database backups, and doesn't initiate any database backups 

   on your behalf. Instead, the service uses existing database backup files for the 

   migration. 

   If your database backup files are in an SMB network share, create an Azure Storage 

   account that allows Azure DMS to upload the database backup files, and to migrate 

   databases. Make sure you create the Azure Storage account in the same region where 

   you create your instance of Azure DMS. 

   You can write each backup to either a separate backup file or to multiple backup files. 

   Appending multiple backups such as full and transaction logs into a single backup 

----------------------- Page 110-----------------------

    media isn't supported. 

   You can provide compressed backups to reduce the likelihood of experiencing 

    potential issues associated with migrating large backups. 

Ensure that the service account running the source SQL Server instance has read and 

write permissions on the SMB network share that contains database backup files. 

If you're migrating a database protected by transparent data encryption (TDE), migrate 

the certificate from the source SQL Server instance to SQL Server on an Azure VM before 

you migrate data. For more information, see  Move a TDE protected database to another 

SQL Server. 

    Tip 

   If your database contains sensitive data protected by Always Encrypted, the 

   migration process automatically migrates your Always Encrypted keys to your target 

   instance of SQL Server on an Azure VM. 

If your database backups are on a network file share, provide a computer on which you 

can install a self-hosted integration runtime to access and migrate database backups. The 

migration wizard gives you the download link and authentication keys to download and 

install your self-hosted integration runtime. 

In preparation for the migration, ensure that the computer on which you install the self- 

hosted integration runtime has the following outbound firewall rules and domain names 

enabled: 

                                                                                     ﾉ   Expand table 

  Domain names                           Outbound       Description 
                                          port 

  Public cloud:  {datafactory}.          443            Required by the self-hosted integration 
  {region}.datafactory.azure.net                        runtime to connect to Azure DMS. 
  or *.frontend.clouddatahub.net                        For a newly created data factory in a public 
                                                        cloud, locate the fully qualified domain name 
 Azure Government:  {datafactory}.                      (FQDN) from your self-hosted integration 
  {region}.datafactory.azure.us                         runtime key, in the format  {datafactory}. 

  Microsoft Azure operated by                           {region}.datafactory.azure.net . 

  21Vianet:  {datafactory}.                             For an existing data factory, if you don't see 
  {region}.datafactory.azure.cn                         the FQDN in your self-hosted integration key, 
                                                        use  *.frontend.clouddatahub.net instead. 

----------------------- Page 111-----------------------

        Domain names                          Outbound     Description 
                                              port 

        download.microsoft.com               443           Required by the self-hosted integration 
                                                           runtime for downloading the updates. If you 
                                                           disable autoupdate, you can skip configuring 
                                                           this domain. 

        *.core.windows.net                   443           Used by the self-hosted integration runtime 
                                                           that connects to the Azure Storage account to 
                                                           upload database backups from your network 
                                                           share 

          Tip 

         If you already store your database backup files in an Azure Storage account, you 

         don't need a self-hosted integration runtime during the migration process. 

      If you use a self-hosted integration runtime, make sure that the computer on which the 

      runtime is installed can connect to the source SQL Server instance and the network file 

      share where backup files are located. 

      Enable outbound port 445 to allow access to the network file share. For more information, 

      see Self-hosted integration runtime for database migrations. 

      If you're using Azure DMS for the first time, make sure that the  Microsoft.DataMigration 

      resource provider is registered in your subscription. 

Start a new migration 

This tutorial describes an online migration from SQL Server to SQL Server on an Azure Virtual 

Machine (Azure VM). 

To start a new migration: 

    1. Go to Azure Database Migration Service         in the Azure portal. Use  +Create to create a 

      new instance of Database Migration Service, or select an existing instance. Then, go to 

      your Database Migration Service instance. 

   2. On the Overview pane of your Azure DMS instance, select  New migration. 

----------------------- Page 112-----------------------

                                                                                         

3. Under Select new migration scenario, choose your source, target server type, backup file 

  storage location, migration mode as Online migration, and choose Select. 

  Your database backups can be located either on an on-premises network share or in an 

  Azure Storage blob container. 

----------------------- Page 113-----------------------

                                                                                         

   If you provide your database backups in an on-premises network share, set up a self- 

   hosted integration runtime in the next step of the wizard. You need a self-hosted 

   integration runtime to access your source database backups, check the validity of the 

   backup set, and upload backups to Azure storage account. If your database backups are 

  already in an Azure storage blob container, you don't need a self-hosted integration 

   runtime. 

   In the online migration mode, the source SQL Server database can be used for read and 

  write activity while database backup files are continuously restored on the target instance 

  of SQL Server on an Azure VM. Application downtime is limited to duration for the 

  cutover at the end of migration. 

4. On the Azure SQL Virtual Machine Online Blob Migration Wizard, follow these steps: 

----------------------- Page 114-----------------------

a. On the Source details tab, enter details for the source SQL Server instance, then select 

   Next: Connect to source SQL Server. 

                                                                                       

b. On the Select migration target tab, enter details for the subscription, resource group, 

  and target SQL Server VM. Then select Next: Data source configuration. 

c. In the Data source configuration step, select the location of your database backups. 

  Your database backups can be located either on an on-premises network share or in an 

  Azure Storage blob container. 

   If you provide your database backups in an on-premises network share, set up a self- 

   hosted integration runtime in the next step of the wizard. You need a self-hosted 

  integration runtime to access your source database backups, check the validity of the 

   backup set, and upload backups to Azure storage account. If your database backups 

  are already in an Azure storage blob container, you don't need a self-hosted 

  integration runtime. 

----------------------- Page 115-----------------------

For backups that are stored in an Azure Storage blob container, enter or select 

the following information: 

                                                                             ﾉ   Expand table 

  Name                      Description 

  Resource group           The resource group where backup files are located. 

  Storage account          The storage account where backup files are located. 
  details 

  Blob container           The blob container where backup files are located. 

  Folder                   The folder where backup files are located. 

  Target database          You can change the target database name during the migration 
  name                      process. 

If loopback check functionality is enabled and the source SQL Server and file 

share are on the same computer, the source can't access the file share with the 

FQDN. To fix this issue, disable loopback check functionality. 

                                                                                           

For backups that are located on a network share, enter the following additional 

information on the respective pages. 

                                                                             ﾉ   Expand table 

  Name                           Description 

  Source server name             The FQDN or IP of the source server. Ensure that the service 
                                 account running the source SQL Server instance has read 
                                 privileges on the network share. 

----------------------- Page 116-----------------------

                  Name                            Description 

                  Authentication Type             Select the authentication type: SQL or Windows 

                  Source Credentials -            The credential (Windows and SQL authentication) to 
                  Username                        connect to the source SQL Server instance and validate the 
                                                  backup files. 

                  Source Credentials -            The credential (Windows and SQL authentication) to 
                  Password                        connect to the source SQL Server instance and validate the 
                                                  backup files. 

                  Network share location          The network share location that contains the full and 
                  that contains backups           transaction log backup files. The migration process 
                                                  automatically ignores any invalid files or backup files in the 
                                                  network share that don't belong to the valid backup set. 

                  Windows user account            The Windows credential (username) that has read access to 
                  with read access to the         the network share to retrieve the backup files. 
                  network share location 

                  Password                        The Windows credential (password) that has read access to 
                                                  the network share to retrieve the backup files. 

                  Target database name            You can change the target database name during the 
                                                  migration process. 

Backup storage scenarios 

Make sure your resources can access the Azure Storage account. Depending on your database 

backup location and desired storage account network settings, refer to the following table for 

the various migration scenarios and network configurations: 

                                                                                              ﾉ    Expand table 

  Scenario                                    SMB network share                Azure Storage account 
                                                                               container 

  Enabled from all networks                   No extra steps                   No extra steps 

  Enabled from selected virtual               On-premises self-hosted          Backups stored in Azure 
  networks and IP addresses                   integration runtime (SHIR)       Storage container 

  Enabled from selected virtual               Azure VM self-hosted             Backups stored in Azure 
  networks and IP addresses + private         integration runtime (SHIR)       Storage container (Private 
  endpoint                                                                     endpoint) 

----------------------- Page 117-----------------------

  On-premises SHIR 

   On-premises self-hosted integration runtime (SHIR) 

   If you install your SHIR on your on-premises network, follow these steps: 

      1. Connect to the Azure portal from the SHIR machine. 

      2. Open your Azure Storage account, and go to the  Networking pane. 

      3. Make sure Public network access is set to  Enabled from selected virtual networks 

        and IP addresses. 

      4. In the Firewall section, select the Add your client IP address checkbox. 

      5. Enter the client IP address of the host machine, and select Save. 

Create a Database Migration Service instance 

Step 1: In the Azure portal   , navigate to the Azure Database Migration Service page. Create a 

new instance of Azure Database Migration Service, or reuse an existing instance that you 

created earlier. 

Use an existing instance of Database Migration Service 

To use an existing instance of Database Migration Service: 

      On Azure portal, under Azure Database Migration Services, select an existing instance of 

      Database Migration Service that you want to use, ensuring that it's present in right 

      Resource Group and region. 

----------------------- Page 118-----------------------

                                                                                      

Create a new instance of Database Migration Service 

To create a new instance of Database Migration Service: 

   1. On Azure portal, under Azure Database Migration Service, select Create. 

                                                                                      

   2. In Select migration scenario and Database Migration Service, select the desired input 

     like Source and Target server type, choose Database Migration Service and choose 

     Select. 

----------------------- Page 119-----------------------

3. On the next screen Create Data Migration Service, select your subscription and resource 

  group, then select Location, and enter the Database Migration Service name. Select 

  Review + Create. This creates the Azure Database Migration Service. 

----------------------- Page 120-----------------------

4. If the self-hosted integration runtime (SHIR) is required, on the overview page of your 

   Database Migration Service and under Settings, select Integration runtime, and complete 

  the following steps: 

   a. Select Configure integration runtime and choose the  Download and install 

     integration runtime     link to open the download link in a web browser. Download the 

     integration runtime, and then install it on a computer that meets the prerequisites for 

     connecting to the source SQL Server instance. For more information, see Self-hosted 

     integration runtime for database migrations. 

----------------------- Page 121-----------------------

                                                                                    

  When installation is finished, Microsoft Integration Runtime Configuration Manager 

  automatically opens to begin the registration process. 

b. In the Authentication key table, copy one of the authentication keys that are provided 

  in the wizard and paste it in Microsoft Integration Runtime Configuration Manager. 

                                                                                    

  If the authentication key is valid, a green check icon appears in Integration Runtime 

  Configuration Manager. A green check indicates that you can continue to  Register. 

----------------------- Page 122-----------------------

        After you register the self-hosted integration runtime, close Microsoft Integration 

        Runtime Configuration Manager. It might take several minutes to reflect the Node 

        details on Azure portal for Database Migration Service, under Settings > Integration 

        runtime. 

                                                                                            

           ７ Note 

           For more information about the self-hosted integration runtime, see Create and 

           configure a self-hosted integration runtime. 

Start the database migration 

On the Database migration summary tab, review the details, then select Start migration. The 

service starts the database migration and automatically takes you back to the Azure DMS 

dashboard. 

----------------------- Page 123-----------------------

                                                                            

Monitor the database migration 

  1. To monitor your database migration, on the Overview pane of your Database Migration 

    Service instance, select Monitor migrations. 

----------------------- Page 124-----------------------

                                                                                                      

    2. To monitor your database migration, on the Overview pane of your DMS instance, select 

      Monitor migrations. 

    3. Under the Migrations tab, you can track migrations that are in progress, completed, and 

      failed (if any), or you can view all database migrations. In the menu bar, select  Refresh to 

      update the migration status. 

                                                                                                      

Azure DMS returns the latest known migration status each time migration status refreshes. The 

following table describes possible statuses: 

                                                                                        ﾉ   Expand table 

  Status       Description 

 Arrived       The backup file arrived in the source backup location and was validated. 

  Uploading    The integration runtime is uploading the backup file to Azure storage. 

  Uploaded     The backup file was uploaded to Azure storage. 

  Restoring    The service is restoring the backup file to SQL Server on an Azure VM. 

----------------------- Page 125-----------------------

 Status        Description 

  Restored     The backup file was successfully restored on SQL Server on an Azure VM. 

 Canceled      The migration process was canceled. 

  Ignored      The backup file was ignored because it doesn't belong to a valid database backup chain. 

Complete migration cutover 

The final step of the tutorial is to complete the migration cutover. The completion ensures the 

migrated database in SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machine is ready for use. Downtime is 

required for applications that connect to the database and the timing of the cutover needs to 

be carefully planned with business or application stakeholders. 

To complete the cutover: 

    1. Stop all incoming transactions to the source database. 

   2. Make application configuration changes to point to the target database in SQL Server on 

      Azure Virtual Machines. 

    3. Take a final log backup of the source database in the backup location specified. 

   4. Put the source database in read-only mode. Therefore, users can read data from the 

      database but not modify it. 

    5. Ensure all database backups have the status Restored in the monitoring details page. 

   6. Select Complete cutover in the monitoring details page. 

During the cutover process, the migration status changes from in progress to completing. The 

migration status changes to succeeded when the cutover process is completed. The database 

migration is successful and that the migrated database is ready for use. 

Related content 

      Migrate a SQL Server database to SQL Server on a virtual machine 

      What is SQL Server on Azure Windows Virtual Machines? 

      Connect to a SQL Server virtual machine on Azure 

      Migrate a database to SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines by using the T-SQL RESTORE 

      command 

----------------------- Page 126-----------------------

Last updated on 02/20/2026 

----------------------- Page 127-----------------------

Prerequisites: Migrate to SQL Server VM 
using distributed AG 

09/17/2025 

Use a distributed availability group (AG) to migrate either a standalone instance of SQL Server 

or an availability group to SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines (VMs). 

This article describes the prerequisites to prepare your source and target environments to 

migrate your SQL Server instance or availability group to SQL Server VMs using a distributed 

ag. 

Migrating a database (or multiple databases) from a standalone instance using a distributed 

availability group is a simple solution that doesn't require a Windows Server Failover Cluster, or 

an availability group listener on either the source or the target. Migrating an availability group 

requires a cluster, and a listener on both source and target. 

Source SQL Server 

To migrate your instance or availability group, your source SQL Server should meet the 

following prerequisites: 

      For a standalone instance migration, the minimum supported version is SQL Server 2017. 

      For an availability group migration, SQL Server 2016 or later is supported. 

      Your SQL Server edition should be enterprise. 

      You must enable the availability group feature. 

      The databases you intend to migrate have been backed up in full mode. 

      If you already have an availability group, it must be in a healthy state. If you create an 

      availability group as part of this process, it must be in a healthy state before you start the 

      migration. 

      Ports used by the SQL Server instance (1433 by default) and the database mirroring 

      endpoint (5022 by default) must be open in the firewall. To migrate databases in an 

      availability group, make sure the port used by the listener is also open in the firewall. 

Target SQL Server VM 

----------------------- Page 128-----------------------

Before your target SQL Server VMs are ready for migration, make sure they meet the following 

prerequisites: 

      The Azure account performing the migration is assigned as the owner or contributor to 

      the resource group that contains target the SQL Server VMs. 

      To use automatic seeding to create your distributed availability group (DAG), the instance 

      name for the global primary (source) of the DAG must match the instance name of the 

      forwarder (target) of the DAG. If there's an instance name mismatch between the global 

      primary and forwarder, then you must use manual seeding to create the DAG, and 

      manually add any additional database files in the future. 

      For simplicity, the target SQL Server instance should match the version of the source SQL 

      Server instance. If you choose to upgrade during the migration process by using a higher 

      version of SQL Server on the target, then you need to manually seed your database rather 

      than relying on autoseeding as is provided in this series of articles. For more information, 

      see Migrate to higher SQL Server versions. 

      The SQL Server edition should be enterprise. 

      You must enable the availability group feature. 

      Ports used by the SQL Server instance (1433 by default) and the database mirroring 

      endpoint (5022 by default) must be open in the firewall. To migrate databases in an 

      availability group, make sure the port used by the listener is also open in the firewall. 

Connectivity 

The source and target SQL Server instance must have an established network connection. 

If the source SQL Server instance is located on an on-premises network, configure a Site-to-site 

VPN connection or an Azure ExpressRoute connection between the on-premises network and 

the virtual network where your target SQL Server VM resides. 

If your source SQL Server instance is located on an Azure virtual network that is different than 

the target SQL Server VM, then configure virtual network peering. 

Authentication 

To simplify authentication between your source and target SQL Server instance, join both 

servers to the same domain, preferably with the domain being on the source side and apply 

domain-based authentication. Since this is the recommended approach, the steps in this 

tutorial series assume both source and target SQL Server instance are part of the same domain. 

----------------------- Page 129-----------------------

If the source and target servers are part of different domains, configure federation between the 

two domains, or configure a domain-independent availability group. 

Related content 

      Use distributed AG to migrate databases from a standalone instance 

      Use distributed AG to migrate availability group 

----------------------- Page 130-----------------------

Use distributed AG to migrate databases 
from a standalone instance 

09/17/2025 

Use a distributed availability group (AG) to migrate a database (or multiple databases) from a 

standalone instance of SQL Server to SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines (VMs). 

Once you've validated your source SQL Server instance meets the prerequisites, follow the 

steps in this article to create an availability group on your standalone SQL Server instance and 

migrate your database (or group of databases) to your SQL Server VM in Azure. 

This article is intended for databases on a standalone instance of SQL Server. This solution 

doesn't require a Windows Server Failover Cluster (WSFC) or an availability group listener. It's 

also possible to migrate databases in an availability group. 

Initial setup 

The first step is to create your SQL Server VM in Azure. You can do so by using the Azure 

portal, Azure PowerShell, or an ARM template. 

Be sure to configure your SQL Server VM according to the prerequisites. 

For simplicity, join your target SQL Server VM to the same domain as your source SQL Server. 

Otherwise, join your target SQL Server VM to a domain that's federated with the domain of 

your source SQL Server. 

----------------------- Page 131-----------------------

To use automatic seeding to create your distributed availability group (DAG), the instance name 

for the global primary (source) of the DAG must match the instance name of the forwarder 

(target) of the DAG. If there's an instance name mismatch between the global primary and 

forwarder, then you must use manual seeding to create the DAG, and manually add any 

additional database files in the future. 

This article uses the following example parameters: 

      Database name:  Adventureworks2022 

      Source machine name (global primary in DAG):  OnPremNode 

      Source SQL Server instance name:  MSSQLSERVER 

      Source availability group name:  OnPremAg 

      Target SQL Server VM name (forwarder in DAG):  SQLVM 

      Target SQL Server on Azure VM instance name:  MSSQLSERVER 

      Target availability group name:  AzureAG 

      Endpoint name:  Hadr_endpoint 

      Distributed availability group name:  DAG 

      Domain name:  Contoso 

Create endpoints 

Use Transact-SQL (T-SQL) to create endpoints on both your source ( OnPremNode) and target 

( SQLVM ) SQL Server instances. 

To create your endpoints, run this T-SQL script on both source and target servers: 

   SQL 

   CREATE ENDPOINT [Hadr_endpoint] 
       STATE = STARTED 
       AS TCP ( 
           LISTENER_PORT = 5022, 
           LISTENER_IP = ALL 
       ) 
       FOR DATABASE_MIRRORING ( 
           ROLE = ALL, 
           AUTHENTICATION = WINDOWS NEGOTIATE, 
           ENCRYPTION = REQUIRED ALGORITHM AES 
       ); 
   GO 

Domain accounts automatically have access to endpoints, but service accounts might not 

automatically be part of the sysadmin group and might not have connect permission. To 

----------------------- Page 132-----------------------

manually grant the SQL Server service account connect permission to the endpoint, run the 

following T-SQL script on both servers: 

   SQL 

   GRANT CONNECT ON ENDPOINT::[Hadr_endpoint] TO [<your account>]; 

Create source AG 

Since a distributed availability group is a special availability group that spans across two 

individual availability groups, you first need to create an availability group on the source SQL 

Server instance. If you already have an availability group that you would like to maintain in 

Azure, then migrate your availability group instead. 

Use Transact-SQL (T-SQL) to create an availability group ( OnPremAg) on the source ( OnPremNode) 

instance for the example  Adventureworks2022 database. 

To create the availability group, run this script on the source: 

   SQL 

   CREATE AVAILABILITY GROUP [OnPremAG] 
   WITH ( 
       AUTOMATED_BACKUP_PREFERENCE = PRIMARY, 
       DB_FAILOVER = OFF, 
       DTC_SUPPORT = NONE, 
       CLUSTER_TYPE = NONE 
   ) 
   FOR DATABASE [Adventureworks2022] REPLICA ON N 'OnPremNode' 
   WITH ( 
       ENDPOINT_URL = N'TCP://OnPremNode.contoso.com:5022', 
       FAILOVER_MODE = MANUAL, 
       AVAILABILITY_MODE = SYNCHRONOUS_COMMIT, 
       SEEDING_MODE = AUTOMATIC, 
       SECONDARY_ROLE(ALLOW_CONNECTIONS = NO) 
   ); 
   GO 

Create target AG 

You also need to create an availability group on the target SQL Server VM as well. 

Use Transact-SQL (T-SQL) to create an availability group ( AzureAG) on the target ( SQLVM ) 

instance. 

----------------------- Page 133-----------------------

To create the availability group, run this script on the target: 

   SQL 

   CREATE AVAILABILITY GROUP [AzureAG] 
   WITH ( 
       AUTOMATED_BACKUP_PREFERENCE = PRIMARY, 
       DB_FAILOVER = OFF, 
       DTC_SUPPORT = NONE, 
       CLUSTER_TYPE = NONE, 
       REQUIRED_SYNCHRONIZED_SECONDARIES_TO_COMMIT = 0 
   ) 
   FOR REPLICA ON N 'SQLVM' 
   WITH ( 
       ENDPOINT_URL = N'TCP://SQLVM.contoso.com:5022', 
       FAILOVER_MODE = MANUAL, 
       AVAILABILITY_MODE = SYNCHRONOUS_COMMIT, 
       SEEDING_MODE = AUTOMATIC, 
       SECONDARY_ROLE(ALLOW_CONNECTIONS = NO) 
   ); 
   GO 

Create distributed AG 

After you have your source ( OnPremAG) and target ( AzureAG) availability groups configured, 

create your distributed availability group to span both individual availability groups. 

Use Transact-SQL on the source SQL Server instance ( OnPremNode) and AG ( OnPremAG) to create 

the distributed availability group ( DAG). 

To create the distributed AG, run this script on the source: 

   SQL 

   CREATE AVAILABILITY GROUP [DAG] 
   WITH (DISTRIBUTED) AVAILABILITY GROUP 
   ON  'OnPremAG' WITH ( 
       LISTENER_URL = 'tcp://OnPremNode.contoso.com:5022', 
       AVAILABILITY_MODE = ASYNCHRONOUS_COMMIT, 
       FAILOVER_MODE = MANUAL, 
       SEEDING_MODE = AUTOMATIC 
   ), 
   'AzureAG' WITH ( 
       LISTENER_URL = 'tcp://SQLVM.contoso.com:5022', 
       AVAILABILITY_MODE = ASYNCHRONOUS_COMMIT, 
       FAILOVER_MODE = MANUAL, 
       SEEDING_MODE = AUTOMATIC 

----------------------- Page 134-----------------------

   ); 
   GO 

The seeding mode is set to  AUTOMATIC as the version of SQL Server on the target and source is 

the same. If your SQL Server target is a higher version, or if your global primary and forwarder 

have different instance names, then create the distributed ag, and join the secondary AG to the 

distributed ag with  SEEDING_MODE set to  MANUAL. Then manually restore your databases from 

the source to the target SQL Server instance. For more information, see  Upgrading versions 

during migration. 

After your distributed AG is created, join the target AG ( AzureAG) on the target instance ( SQLVM ) 

to the distributed AG ( DAG). 

To join the target AG to the distributed AG, run this script on the target: 

   SQL 

   ALTER AVAILABILITY GROUP [DAG] 
   JOIN AVAILABILITY GROUP 
   ON  'OnPremAG' WITH ( 
       LISTENER_URL = 'tcp://OnPremNode.contoso.com:5022', 
       AVAILABILITY_MODE = ASYNCHRONOUS_COMMIT, 
       FAILOVER_MODE = MANUAL, 
       SEEDING_MODE = AUTOMATIC 
   ), 
   'AzureAG' WITH ( 
       LISTENER_URL = 'tcp://SQLVM.contoso.com:5022', 
       AVAILABILITY_MODE = ASYNCHRONOUS_COMMIT, 
       FAILOVER_MODE = MANUAL, 
       SEEDING_MODE = AUTOMATIC 
   ); 
   GO 

If you need to cancel, pause, or delay synchronization between the source and target 

availability groups (such as, for example, performance issues), run this script on the source 

global primary instance ( OnPremNode): 

   SQL 

   ALTER AVAILABILITY GROUP [DAG] 
   MODIFY AVAILABILITY GROUP 
   ON  'AzureAG' WITH (SEEDING_MODE = MANUAL); 

For more information, see Cancel automatic seeding to forwarder. 

----------------------- Page 135-----------------------

Related content 

    Complete migration using a distributed AG 

----------------------- Page 136-----------------------

Use distributed AG to migrate availability 
group 

09/17/2025 

Use a distributed availability group (AG) to migrate databases in an Always On availability 

group while maintaining high availability and disaster recovery (HADR) support post migration 

on your SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines (VMs). 

Once you've validated your source SQL Server instances meet the prerequisites, follow the 

steps in this article to create a distributed availability between your existing availability group, 

and your target availability group on your SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

This article is intended for databases participating in an availability group, and requires a 

Windows Server Failover Cluster (WSFC) and an availability group listener. It's also possible to 

migrate databases from a standalone SQL Server instance. 

                                                                                                 

Initial setup 

The first step is to create your SQL Server VMs in Azure. You can do so by using the Azure 

portal, Azure PowerShell, or an ARM template. 

Be sure to configure your SQL Server VMs according to the prerequisites. Choose between a 

single subnet deployment, which relies on an Azure Load Balancer or distributed network name 

to route traffic to your availability group listener, or a multi-subnet deployment which doesn't 

have such a requirement. The multi-subnet deployment is recommended. To learn more, see 

connectivity. 

For simplicity, join your target SQL Server VMs to the same domain as your source SQL Server 

instances. Otherwise, join your target SQL Server VM to a domain that's federated with the 

----------------------- Page 137-----------------------

domain of your source SQL Server instances. 

To use automatic seeding to create your distributed availability group (DAG), the instance name 

for the global primary (source) of the DAG must match the instance name of the forwarder 

(target) of the DAG. If there's an instance name mismatch between the global primary and 

forwarder, then you must use manual seeding to create the DAG, and manually add any 

additional database files in the future. 

This article uses the following example parameters: 

      Database name:  Adventureworks2022 

      Source machine names :  OnPremNode1 (global primary in DAG),  OnPremNode2 

      Source SQL Server instance names:  MSSQLSERVER  MSSQLSERVER,  

      Source availability group name :  OnPremAg 

      Source availability group listener name:  OnPremAG_LST 

      Target SQL Server VM names:  SQLVM1 (forwarder in DAG),  SQLVM2 

      Target SQL Server on Azure VM instance names:  MSSQLSERVER  MSSQLSERVER,  

      Target availability group name:  AzureAG 

      Source availability group listener name:  AzureAG_LST 

      Endpoint name:  Hadr_endpoint 

      Distributed availability group name:  DAG 

      Domain name:  Contoso 

Create endpoints 

Use Transact-SQL (T-SQL) to create endpoints on both your two source instances ( OnPremNode1, 

OnPremNode2) and target SQL Server instances ( SQLVM1  SQLVM2,    ). 

If you already have an availability group configured on the source instances, only run this script 

on the two target instances. 

To create your endpoints, run this T-SQL script on both source and target servers: 

   SQL 

   CREATE ENDPOINT [Hadr_endpoint] 
       STATE = STARTED 
       AS TCP ( 
           LISTENER_PORT = 5022, 
           LISTENER_IP = ALL 
       ) 
       FOR DATABASE_MIRRORING ( 
           ROLE = ALL, 
           AUTHENTICATION = WINDOWS NEGOTIATE, 

----------------------- Page 138-----------------------

           ENCRYPTION = REQUIRED ALGORITHM AES 
       ); 
   GO 

Domain accounts automatically have access to endpoints, but service accounts might not 

automatically be part of the sysadmin group and might not have connect permission. To 

manually grant the SQL Server service account connect permission to the endpoint, run the 

following T-SQL script on both servers: 

   SQL 

   GRANT CONNECT ON ENDPOINT::[Hadr_endpoint] TO [<your account>]; 

Create source AG 

Since a distributed availability group is a special availability group that spans across two 

individual availability groups, you first need to create an availability group on the two source 

SQL Server instances. 

If you already have an availability group on your source instances, skip this section. 

Use Transact-SQL (T-SQL) to create an availability group ( OnPremAG) between your two source 

instances ( OnPremNode1  OnPremNode2,  ) for the example  Adventureworks2022 database. 

To create the availability group on the source instances, run this script on the source primary 

replica ( OnPremNode1): 

   SQL 

   CREATE AVAILABILITY GROUP [OnPremAG] 
   WITH ( 
       AUTOMATED_BACKUP_PREFERENCE = PRIMARY, 
       DB_FAILOVER = OFF, 
       DTC_SUPPORT = NONE 
   ) 
   FOR DATABASE [Adventureworks2022] REPLICA 
   ON N 'OnPremNode1' WITH ( 
       ENDPOINT_URL = N'TCP://OnPremNode1.contoso.com:5022', 
       FAILOVER_MODE = AUTOMATIC, 
       AVAILABILITY_MODE = SYNCHRONOUS_COMMIT, 
       SEEDING_MODE = AUTOMATIC, 
       SECONDARY_ROLE(ALLOW_CONNECTIONS = NO) 
   ), 
   N'OnPremNode2' WITH ( 
       ENDPOINT_URL = N'TCP://OnPremNode2.contoso.com:5022', 
       FAILOVER_MODE = AUTOMATIC, 
       AVAILABILITY_MODE = SYNCHRONOUS_COMMIT, 

----------------------- Page 139-----------------------

       SEEDING_MODE = AUTOMATIC, 
       SECONDARY_ROLE(ALLOW_CONNECTIONS = NO) 
   ); 

Next, to join the secondary replica ( OnPremNode2) to the availability group ( OnPremAg). 

To join the availability group, run this script on the source secondary replica: 

   SQL 

   ALTER AVAILABILITY GROUP [OnPremAG] JOIN; 
   GO 
   ALTER AVAILABILITY GROUP [OnPremAG] GRANT CREATE ANY DATABASE; 
   GO 

Finally, create the listener for your global forwarder availability group ( OnPremAG). 

To create the listener, run this script on the source primary replica: 

   SQL 

   USE [master] 
   GO 

   ALTER AVAILABILITY GROUP [OnPremAG] 
   ADD LISTENER N 'OnPremAG_LST' ( 
       WITH IP ( 
           (<available_static_ip>, <mask>), 
           PORT = 60173 
       ) 
   ); 
   GO 

Create target AG 

You also need to create an availability group on the target SQL Server VMs as well. 

If you already have an availability group configured between your SQL Server instances in 

Azure, skip this section. 

Use Transact-SQL (T-SQL) to create an availability group ( AzureAG) on the target SQL Server 

instances ( SQLVM1 and  SQLVM2). 

To create the availability group on the target, run this script on the target primary replica: 

   SQL 

----------------------- Page 140-----------------------

   CREATE AVAILABILITY GROUP [AzureAG] FOR REPLICA 
   ON N 'SQLVM1' WITH ( 
       ENDPOINT_URL = N'TCP://SQLVM1.contoso.com:5022', 
       FAILOVER_MODE = MANUAL, 
       AVAILABILITY_MODE = SYNCHRONOUS_COMMIT, 
       BACKUP_PRIORITY = 50, 
       SECONDARY_ROLE(ALLOW_CONNECTIONS = NO), 
       SEEDING_MODE = AUTOMATIC 
   ), 
   N'SQLVM2' WITH ( 
       ENDPOINT_URL = N'TCP://SQLVM2.contoso.com:5022', 
       FAILOVER_MODE = MANUAL, 
       AVAILABILITY_MODE = SYNCHRONOUS_COMMIT, 
       BACKUP_PRIORITY = 50, 
       SECONDARY_ROLE(ALLOW_CONNECTIONS = NO), 
       SEEDING_MODE = AUTOMATIC 
   ); 
   GO 

Next, join the target secondary replica ( SQLVM2) to the availability group ( AzureAG). 

Run this script on the target secondary replica: 

   SQL 

   ALTER AVAILABILITY GROUP [AzureAG] JOIN; 
   GO 
   ALTER AVAILABILITY GROUP [AzureAG] GRANT CREATE ANY DATABASE; 
   GO 

Finally, create a listener ( AzureAG_LST) for your target availability group ( AzureAG). If you 

deployed your SQL Server VMs to multiple subnets, create your listener using Transact-SQL. If 

you deployed your SQL Server VMs to a single subnet, configure either an Azure Load Balancer, 

or a distributed network name for your listener. 

To create your listener, run this script on the primary replica of the availability group in Azure. 

   SQL 

   ALTER AVAILABILITY GROUP [AzureAG] 
   ADD LISTENER N 'AzureAG_LST' ( 
       WITH IP ( 
           (N'<primary replica_secondary_ip>', N'<primary_mask>'), 
           (N'<secondary replica_secondary_ip>', N'<secondary_mask>') 
       ), 
       PORT = <port_number_you_set> 
   ); 
   GO 

----------------------- Page 141-----------------------

Create distributed AG 

After you have your source ( OnPremAG) and target ( AzureAG) availability groups configured, 

create your distributed availability group to span both individual availability groups. 

Use Transact-SQL on the source SQL Server global primary ( OnPremNode1) and AG ( OnPremAG) to 

create the distributed availability group ( DAG). 

To create the distributed AG on the source, run this script on the source global primary: 

   SQL 

   CREATE AVAILABILITY GROUP [DAG] 
   WITH (DISTRIBUTED) AVAILABILITY GROUP 
   ON  'OnPremAG' WITH ( 
       LISTENER_URL = 'tcp://OnPremAG_LST.contoso.com:5022', 
       AVAILABILITY_MODE = ASYNCHRONOUS_COMMIT, 
       FAILOVER_MODE = MANUAL, 
       SEEDING_MODE = AUTOMATIC 
   ), 
   'AzureAG' WITH ( 
       LISTENER_URL = 'tcp://AzureAG_LST.contoso.com:5022', 
       AVAILABILITY_MODE = ASYNCHRONOUS_COMMIT, 
       FAILOVER_MODE = MANUAL, 
       SEEDING_MODE = AUTOMATIC 
   ); 
   GO 

   ７ Note 

   The seeding mode is set to  AUTOMATIC as the version of SQL Server on the target and 

   source is the same. If your SQL Server target is a higher version, or if your global primary 

   and forwarder have different instance names, then create the distributed ag, and join the 

   secondary AG to the distributed ag with  SEEDING_MODE set to  MANUAL. Then manually 

   restore your databases from the source to the target SQL Server instance. Review 

   upgrading versions during migration to learn more. 

After your distributed AG is created, join the target AG ( AzureAG) on the target forwarder 

instance ( SQLVM1) to the distributed AG ( DAG). 

To join the target AG to the distributed AG, run this script on the target forwarder: 

   SQL 

----------------------- Page 142-----------------------

   ALTER AVAILABILITY GROUP [DAG] 
   INNER JOIN AVAILABILITY GROUP 
   ON  'OnPremAG' WITH ( 
           LISTENER_URL = 'tcp://OnPremAG_LST.contoso.com:5022', 
           AVAILABILITY_MODE = ASYNCHRONOUS_COMMIT, 
           FAILOVER_MODE = MANUAL, 
           SEEDING_MODE = AUTOMATIC 
           ), 
   'AzureAG' WITH ( 
       LISTENER_URL = 'tcp://AzureAG_LST.contoso.com:5022', 
       AVAILABILITY_MODE = ASYNCHRONOUS_COMMIT, 
       FAILOVER_MODE = MANUAL, 
       SEEDING_MODE = AUTOMATIC 
   ); 
   GO 

If you need to cancel, pause, or delay synchronization between the source and target 

availability groups (such as, for example, performance issues), run this script on the source 

global primary instance ( OnPremNode1): 

   SQL 

   ALTER AVAILABILITY GROUP [DAG] 
   MODIFY AVAILABILITY GROUP ON  'AzureAG' 
   WITH (SEEDING_MODE = MANUAL); 

To learn more, review cancel automatic seeding to forwarder. 

Related content 

      Complete migration using a distributed AG 

----------------------- Page 143-----------------------

Complete migration using a distributed AG 

09/17/2025 

Use a distributed availability group (AG) to migrate your databases from SQL Server to SQL 

Server on Azure Virtual Machines (VMs). 

This article assumes you already configured your distributed AG for either your standalone 

databases or your availability group databases, and now you're ready to finalize the migration 

to SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

Monitor migration 

Use Transact-SQL (T-SQL) to monitor the progress of your migration. 

Run the following script on the global primary and the forwarder and validate that the state for 

 synchronization_state_desc for the primary availability group ( OnPremAG) and the secondary 

availability group ( AzureAG) is  SYNCHRONIZED . Confirm that the  synchronization_state_desc for 

the distributed AG ( DAG) is synchronizing and the  last_hardened_lsn is the same per database 

on both the global primary and the forwarder. 

If not, rerun the query on both sides every 5 seconds or so until it's the case. 

Use the following script to monitor the migration: 

   SQL 

   SELECT ag.name, 
          drs.database_id, 
          db_name(drs.database_id) AS database_name, 
          drs.group_id, 
          drs.replica_id, 
          drs.synchronization_state_desc, 
          drs.last_hardened_lsn 
   FROM sys.dm_hadr_database_replica_states AS drs 
        INNER JOIN sys.availability_groups AS ag 
            ON drs.group_id = ag.group_id; 

Complete migration 

Once you validate the states of the availability group and the distributed AG, you're ready to 

complete the migration. This consists of failing over the distributed AG to the forwarder (the 

target SQL Server in Azure), and then cutting over the application to the new primary on the 

Azure side. 

----------------------- Page 144-----------------------

To fail over your distributed availability group, review failover to secondary availability group. 

After the failover, update the connection string of your application to connect to the new 

primary replica in Azure. At this point, you can choose to maintain the distributed availability 

group, or use  DROP AVAILABILITY GROUP [DAG] on both the source and target SQL Server 

instances to drop it. 

If your domain controller is on the source side, validate that your target SQL Server VMs in 

Azure are joined to the domain before abandoning the source SQL Server instances. Don't 

delete the domain controller on the source side until you create a domain on the source side in 

Azure and add your SQL Server VMs to this new domain. 

Related content 

      Migration guide: SQL Server to SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines 

      What is SQL Server on Azure Windows Virtual Machines? 

      Connect to a SQL Server virtual machine on Azure 

----------------------- Page 145-----------------------

Migrate an availability group to SQL Server 
on Azure VM 

09/15/2025 

Applies to:       SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines 

This article teaches you how to migrate your SQL Server Always On availability group to SQL 

Server on Azure virtual machines (VMs) by using the Azure Migrate: Server Migration tool. 

Using the migration tool, you can migrate each replica in the availability group to an Azure 

virtual machine hosting SQL Server, along with the cluster metadata, availability group 

metadata, and other necessary high availability components. 

In this article, you learn how to: 

 ＂   Prepare Azure and source environment for migration. 

 ＂   Start replicating servers. 

 ＂   Monitor replication. 

 ＂   Run a full server migration. 

 ＂   Reconfigure Always On availability group. 

This guide uses the agent-based migration approach of Azure Migrate, which treats any server 

or virtual machine as a physical server. When it's migrating physical machines, Azure Migrate: 

Server Migration uses the same replication architecture as the agent-based disaster recovery in 

the Azure Site Recovery service, and some components share the same code base. Some 

content might link to Site Recovery documentation. 

Prerequisites 

Before you begin this tutorial, you should complete the following prerequisites: 

    1. An Azure subscription. Create a free account      , if necessary. 

   2. Install the Azure PowerShell Az module. 

   3. Download the PowerShell samples scripts         from the GitHub repository. 

Prepare Azure 

Prepare Azure for migration with the Server Migration tool. 

                                                                                     ﾉ   Expand table 

----------------------- Page 146-----------------------

 Task                   Details 

  Create an Azure      Your Azure account needs Contributor or Owner permissions to create a new 
  Migrate project       project. 

 Verify permissions    Your Azure account needs the following permissions to create a Key Vault, create a 
 for your Azure        VM, and to write to an Azure managed disk: Contributor or Owner permissions on 
  account              the Azure subscription, permissions to register apps in Microsoft Entra ID (formerly 
                       Azure Active Directory), and User Access Administrator permissions on the Azure 
                        subscription. 

  Set up an Azure       Setup an Azure virtual network. When you replicate to Azure, Azure VMs are created 
 virtual network        and joined to the Azure virtual network that you specify when you set up migration. 

To check you have proper permissions, follow these steps: 

    1. In the Azure portal, open the subscription, and select Access control (IAM). 

    2. In Check access, find the relevant account, and select it to view permissions. 

    3. You should have Contributor or Owner permissions. 

             If you just created a free Azure account, you're the owner of your subscription. 

             If you're not the subscription owner, work with the owner to assign the role. 

If you need to assign permissions, follow the steps in Prepare for an Azure user account. 

Prepare for migration 

To prepare for server migration, verify the physical server settings, and prepare to deploy a 

replication appliance. 

Check machine requirements 

To migrate to Azure, ensure that your source machines comply with requirements. Follow these 

steps: 

    1. Verify server requirements. 

    2. Verify that source machines that you replicate to Azure comply with Azure VM 

      requirements. 

    3. Some Windows sources require a few more changes. Migrating the source before making 

      these changes could prevent the VM from booting in Azure. For some operating systems, 

      Azure Migrate makes these changes automatically. 

Prepare for replication 

----------------------- Page 147-----------------------

Azure Migrate: Server Migration uses a replication appliance to replicate machines to Azure. 

The replication appliance runs the following components: 

      Configuration server: The configuration server coordinates communications between on- 

      premises and Azure, and manages data replication. 

      Process server: The process server acts as a replication gateway. It receives replication 

      data; optimizes it with caching, compression, and encryption, and sends it to a cache 

      storage account in Azure. 

Prepare for appliance deployment as follows: 

      Create a Windows Server 2016 machine to host the replication appliance. Review the 

      machine requirements. 

      The replication appliance uses MySQL. Review the options for installing MySQL on the 

      appliance. 

      Review the Azure URLs required for the replication appliance to access public and 

      government clouds. 

      Review port access requirements for the replication appliance. 

  ７ Note 

   The replication appliance should be installed on a machine other than the source machine 

  you're replicating or migrating. It shouldn't be installed on any machine that the Azure 

   Migrate discovery and assessment appliance was installed on before. 

Download replication appliance installer 

To download the replication appliance installer, follow these steps: 

   1. In the Azure Migrate project > Servers, in Azure Migrate: Server Migration, select 

      Discover. 

----------------------- Page 148-----------------------

2. In Discover machines > Are your machines virtualized?, select Physical or other (AWS, 

   GCP, Xen, etc.). 

3. In Target region, select the Azure region to which you want to migrate the machines. 

4. Select Confirm that the target region for migration is region-name. 

----------------------- Page 149-----------------------

5. Select Create resources. This operation creates an Azure Site Recovery vault in the 

   background. 

        If migration is already set up with Azure Migrate: Server Migration, the target option 

        can't be configured, since resources were set up previously. 

        You can't change the target region for this project after selecting this button. 

        All subsequent migrations are to this region. 

6. In Do you want to install a new replication appliance?, select Install a replication 

  appliance. 

7. In Download and install the replication appliance software, download the appliance 

   installer, and the registration key. You need to download the key in order to register the 

  appliance. The key is valid for five days after you download it. 

                                                                                            

8. Copy the appliance setup file and key file to the Windows Server 2016 machine you 

  created for the appliance. 

9. After the installation completes, the Appliance configuration wizard will launch 

  automatically (You can also launch the wizard manually by using the cspsconfigtool 

  shortcut that is created on the desktop of the appliance machine). Use the  Manage 

  Accounts tab of the wizard to create a dummy account with the following details: 

        "guest" as the friendly name 

        "username" as the username 

        "password" as the password for the account. 

----------------------- Page 150-----------------------

      You use this dummy account in the Enable Replication stage. 

  10. After setup completes, and the appliance restarts, in  Discover machines, select the new 

      appliance in Select Configuration Server, and select Finalize registration. Finalize 

      registration prepares the replication appliance by performing a couple of final tasks. 

                                                                                                 

Install Mobility service 

Install the Mobility service agent on the servers you want to migrate. The agent installers are 

available on the replication appliance. Find the right installer, and install the agent on each 

machine you want to migrate. 

To install the Mobility service, follow these steps: 

   1. Sign in to the replication appliance. 

   2. Navigate to  %ProgramData%\ASR\home\svsystems\pushinstallsvc\repository . 

   3. Find the installer for the machine operating system and version. Review supported 

      operating systems. 

   4. Copy the installer file to the machine you want to migrate. 

   5. Make sure that you have the passphrase that was generated when you deployed the 

      appliance. 

            Store the file in a temporary text file on the machine. 

            You can obtain the passphrase on the replication appliance. From the command line, 

            run  C:\ProgramData\ASR\home\svsystems\bin\genpassphrase.exe -v to view the 

            current passphrase. 

            Don't regenerate the passphrase. This breaks connectivity, and you have to 

            reregister the replication appliance. 

            In the  /Platform parameter, specify  VMware for both VMware machines and physical 

            machines. 

   6. Connect to the machine and extract the contents of the installer file to a local folder (such 

      as c:\temp). Run the following commands in an admin command prompt: 

----------------------- Page 151-----------------------

         Console 

         ren Microsoft-ASR_UA*Windows*release.exe MobilityServiceInstaller.exe 
         MobilityServiceInstaller.exe /q /x:C:\Temp\Extracted 
         cd C:\Temp\Extracted 

    7. Run the Mobility Service Installer: 

         Console 

         UnifiedAgent.exe /Role "MS" /Platform "VmWare" /Silent 

    8. Register the agent with the replication appliance: 

         Console 

         cd C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Azure Site Recovery\agent 
         UnifiedAgentConfigurator.exe  /CSEndPoint <replication appliance IP address>  
         /PassphraseFilePath <Passphrase File Path> 

It might take some time after installation for discovered machines to appear in Azure Migrate: 

Server Migration. As VMs are discovered, the Discovered servers count rises. 

Prepare source machines 

To prepare source machines, run the  Get-ClusterInfo.ps1 script on a cluster node to retrieve 

information on the cluster resources. The script outputs the role name, resource name, IP, and 

probe port in the  Cluster-Config.csv file. 

   PowerShell 

   ./Get-ClusterInfo.ps1 

----------------------- Page 152-----------------------

Create load balancer 

For the cluster and cluster roles to respond properly to requests, an Azure Load balancer is 

required. Without a load balancer, the other VMs are unable to reach the cluster IP address 

because it isn't recognized as belonging to the network or the cluster. 

To create the load balancer, follow these steps: 

    1. Fill out the columns in the  Cluster-Config.csv file: 

                                                                                                   ﾉ   Expand table 

  Column           Description 
  header 

  NewIP            Specify the IP address in the Azure virtual network (or subnet) for each resource in the 
                   CSV file. 

  ServicePort      Specify the service port to be used by each resource in the CSV file. For the SQL clustered 
                   resource, use the same value for service port as the probe port in the CSV. For other 
                   cluster roles, the default values used are 1433 but you can continue to use the port 
                   numbers that are configured in your current setup. 

    1. Run the  Create-ClusterLoadBalancer.ps1 script to create the load balancer using the 

       following parameters: 

                                                                                                   ﾉ   Expand table 

  Parameter                   Type           Description 

  ConfigFilePath              Mandatory      Specify the path for the  Cluster-Config.csv file that you filled out 

                                             in the previous step. 

  ResourceGroupName           Mandatory      Specify the name of the resource group in which the load balancer 

                                             is to be created. 

  VNetName                    Mandatory      Specify the name of the Azure virtual network that the load 

                                             balancer is to be associated to. 

  SubnetName                  Mandatory      Specify the name of the subnet in the Azure virtual network that 

                                             the load balancer is to be associated to. 

  VNetResourceGroupName       Mandatory      Specify the name of the resource group for the Azure virtual 

                                             network that the load balancer is to be associated to. 

  Location                    Mandatory      Specify the location in which the load balancer should be created. 

  LoadBalancerName            Mandatory      Specify the name of the load balancer to be created. 

----------------------- Page 153-----------------------

   PowerShell 

   ./Create-ClusterLoadBalancer.ps1 -ConfigFilePath ./cluster-config.csv - 
   ResourceGroupName $resourcegroupname -VNetName $vnetname -subnetName $subnetname - 
   VnetResourceGroupName $vnetresourcegroupname -Location "eastus" -LoadBalancerName  
   $loadbalancername 

Replicate machines 

Now, select machines for migration. You can replicate up to 10 machines together. If you need 

to replicate more, then replicate them simultaneously in batches of 10. 

To replicate machines, follow these steps: 

    1. In the Azure Migrate project > Servers, Azure Migrate: Server Migration, select 

      Replicate. 

----------------------- Page 154-----------------------

2. In Replicate, > Source settings > Are your machines virtualized?, select Physical or other 

   (AWS, GCP, Xen, etc.). 

3. In On-premises appliance, select the name of the Azure Migrate appliance that you set 

   up. 

4. In Process Server, select the name of the replication appliance. 

5. In Guest credentials, select the dummy account created previously during the  replication 

   installer setup previously in this article. Then select  Next: Virtual machines. 

                                                                                             

6. In Virtual Machines, in Import migration settings from an assessment?, leave the default 

   setting No, I'll specify the migration settings manually. 

7. Check each VM you want to migrate. Then select Next: Target settings. 

----------------------- Page 155-----------------------

                                                                                                 

 8. In Target settings, select the subscription, and target region to which you'll migrate, and 

    specify the resource group in which the Azure VMs will reside after migration. 

 9. In Virtual Network, select the Azure virtual network/subnet to which the Azure VMs will 

    be joined after migration. 

10. In Availability options, select: 

          Availability Zone to pin the migrated machine to a specific Availability Zone in the 

          region. Use this option to distribute servers that form a multi-node application tier 

          across Availability Zones. If you select this option, you need to specify the 

          Availability Zone to use for each of the selected machines in the Compute tab. This 

          option is only available if the target region selected for the migration supports 

          Availability Zones. 

          Availability Set to place the migrated machine in an Availability Set. The target 

          resource group that was selected must have one or more availability sets in order to 

          use this option. 

          No infrastructure redundancy required option if you don't need either of these 

          availability configurations for the migrated machines. 

11. In Disk encryption type, select: 

          Encryption-at-rest with platform-managed key 

----------------------- Page 156-----------------------

         Encryption-at-rest with customer-managed key 

         Double encryption with platform-managed and customer-managed keys 

      ７ Note 

      To replicate virtual machines with a Customer Managed Key (CMK), you need to 

      create a disk encryption set under the target Resource Group. A disk encryption set 

      object maps Managed Disks to a Key Vault that contains the CMK to use for SSE. 

12. In Azure Hybrid Benefit: 

         Select No if you don't want to apply Azure Hybrid Benefit. Then select  Next. 

         Select Yes if you have Windows Server machines that are covered with active 

         Software Assurance or Windows Server subscriptions, and you want to apply the 

         benefit to the machines you're migrating. Then select Next. 

                                                                                          

13. In Compute, review the VM name, size, OS disk type, and availability configuration (if 

   selected in the previous step). VMs must conform with Azure requirements. 

----------------------- Page 157-----------------------

         VM size: If you're using assessment recommendations, the VM size dropdown list 

          shows the recommended size. Otherwise Azure Migrate picks a size based on the 

          closest match in the Azure subscription. Alternatively, pick a manual size in Azure 

         VM size. 

          OS disk: Specify the OS (boot) disk for the VM. The OS disk is the disk that has the 

          operating system bootloader and installer. 

         Availability Zone: Specify the Availability Zone to use. 

         Availability Set: Specify the Availability Set to use. 

                                                                                                

14. In Disks, specify whether the VM disks should be replicated to Azure, and select the disk 

    type (standard SSD/HDD or premium managed disks) in Azure. Then select  Next. 

                                                                                                

15. In Review and start replication, review the settings, and select  Replicate to start the initial 

    replication for the servers. 

----------------------- Page 158-----------------------

   ７ Note 

   You can update replication settings any time before replication starts,  Manage > 

   Replicating machines. Settings can't be changed after replication starts. 

Track and monitor 

Replication proceeds in the following sequence: 

      When you select Replicate, a Start Replication job begins. 

      When the Start Replication job finishes successfully, the machines begin their initial 

      replication to Azure. 

      After initial replication finishes, delta replication begins. Incremental changes to on- 

      premises disks are periodically replicated to the replica disks in Azure. 

You can track job status in the portal notifications. 

You can monitor replication status by selecting on Replicating servers in Azure Migrate: 

Server Migration. 

Migrate VMs 

After machines are replicated, they're ready for migration. To migrate your servers, follow these 

steps: 

----------------------- Page 159-----------------------

1. In the Azure Migrate project > Servers > Azure Migrate: Server Migration, select 

   Replicating servers. 

2. To ensure the migrated server is synchronized with the source server, stop the SQL Server 

   service on every replica in the availability group, starting with secondary replicas (in SQL 

   Server Configuration Manager > Services) while ensuring the disks hosting SQL data are 

   online. 

3. In Replicating machines > select server name > Overview. Before moving on to the next 

   step, ensure that the last synchronized timestamp is after you stopped the SQL Server 

   service on the servers to be migrated. This process should only take a few minutes. 

4. In Replicating machines, right-click the VM > Migrate. 

5. In Migrate > Shut down virtual machines and perform a planned migration with no 

   data loss, select No > OK. 

     ７ Note 

     For physical server migration, shut down of the source machine isn't supported 

     automatically. The recommendation is to bring the application down as part of the 

     migration window (don't let the applications accept any connections). Then, initiate 

----------------------- Page 160-----------------------

         the migration (the server needs to be kept running, so remaining changes can be 

         synchronized) before the migration is completed. 

    6. A migration job starts for the VM. Track the job in Azure notifications. 

    7. After the job finishes, you can view and manage the VM from the Virtual Machines page. 

Reconfigure cluster 

After your VMs are migrated, follow these steps to reconfigure the cluster: 

    1. Shut down the migrated servers in Azure. 

    2. Add the migrated machines to the backend pool of the load balancer. Navigate to  Load 

      Balancer > Backend pools. 

    3. Select the backend pool, and add the migrated machines. 

   4. Start the migrated servers in Azure and sign in to any node. 

    5. Copy the  Cluster-Config.csv file and run the  Update-ClusterConfig.ps1 script passing 

      the CSV as a parameter. This script ensures the cluster resources are updated with the 

      new configuration for the cluster to work in Azure. 

         PowerShell 

         ./Update-ClusterConfig.ps1 -ConfigFilePath $filepath 

Your Always On availability group is ready. 

Complete the migration 

    1. After the migration is done, right-click the VM > Stop migration. This command: 

            Stops replication for the on-premises machine. 

             Removes the machine from the Replicating servers count in Azure Migrate: Server 

             Migration. 

            Cleans up replication state information for the machine. 

    2. Install the Azure VM for Windows agent on the migrated machines. 

    3. Perform any post-migration app tweaks, such as updating database connection strings, 

      and web server configurations. 

----------------------- Page 161-----------------------

   4. Perform final application and migration acceptance testing on the migrated application 

      now running in Azure. 

   5. Cut over traffic to the migrated Azure VM instance. 

   6. Remove the on-premises VMs from your local VM inventory. 

   7. Remove the on-premises VMs from local backups. 

   8. Update any internal documentation to show the new location and IP address of the Azure 

      VMs. 

Post-migration best practices 

      For SQL Server: 

         Install SQL Server IaaS Agent extension to automate management and administration 

         tasks. 

         Optimize SQL Server performance on Azure VMs. 

         Understand pricing for SQL Server on Azure. 

      For increased resilience: 

         Keep data secure by backing up Azure VMs using the Azure Backup service. 

         Keep workloads running and continuously available by replicating Azure VMs to a 

         secondary region with Site Recovery. 

      For increased security: 

         Lock down and limit inbound traffic access with Microsoft Defender for Cloud - Just in 

         time administration. 

         Restrict network traffic to management endpoints with Network security groups. 

         Deploy Azure Disk Encryption to help secure disks, and keep data safe from theft and 

         unauthorized access. 

         Read more about securing IaaS resources        , and visit the Microsoft Defender for 

         Cloud    . 

      For monitoring and management: 

         Consider deploying Microsoft Cost Management to monitor resource usage and 

         spending. 

Related content 

      Get started: Accelerate migration 

----------------------- Page 162-----------------------

Migrate failover cluster instance to SQL 
Server on Azure VMs 

09/07/2025 

This article teaches you to migrate your Always On failover cluster instance (FCI) to SQL Server 

on Azure VMs using the Azure Migrate: Server Migration tool. Using the migration tool, you 

can migrate each node in the failover cluster instance to an Azure VM hosting SQL Server, as 

well as the cluster and FCI metadata. 

In this article, you learn how to: 

 ＂   Prepare Azure and source environment for migration. 

 ＂   Start replicating VMs. 

 ＂   Monitor replication. 

 ＂   Run a full VM migration. 

 ＂   Reconfigure SQL failover cluster with Azure shared disks. 

This guide uses the agent-based migration approach of Azure Migrate, which treats any server 

or virtual machine as a physical server. When migrating physical machines, Azure Migrate: 

Server Migration uses the same replication architecture as the agent-based disaster recovery in 

the Azure Site Recovery service, and some components share the same code base. Some 

content might link to Site Recovery documentation. 

Prerequisites 

Before you begin this tutorial, you should: 

    1. An Azure subscription. Create a free account       , if necessary. 

   2. Install the Azure PowerShell Az module. 

    3. Download the PowerShell samples scripts         from the GitHub repository. 

Prepare Azure 

Prepare Azure for migration with Server Migration. 

                                                                                       ﾉ   Expand table 

 Task                  Details 

 Create an Azure       Your Azure account needs Contributor or Owner permissions to create a new 
  Migrate project      project. 

----------------------- Page 163-----------------------

 Task                   Details 

 Verify permissions     Your Azure account needs Contributor or Owner permissions on the Azure 
  for your Azure        subscription, permissions to register apps in Microsoft Entra ID (formerly Azure 
  account               Active Directory), and User Access Administrator permissions on the Azure 
                        subscription to create a Key Vault, to create a VM, and to write to an Azure 
                        managed disk. 

  Set up an Azure       Setup an Azure virtual network (VNet). When you replicate to Azure, Azure VMs are 
 virtual network        created and joined to the Azure VNet that you specify when you set up migration. 

To check you have proper permissions, follow these steps: 

    1. In the Azure portal, open the subscription, and select Access control (IAM). 

    2. In Check access, find the relevant account, and select it to view permissions. 

    3. You should have Contributor or Owner permissions. 

             If you just created a free Azure account, you're the owner of your subscription. 

             If you're not the subscription owner, work with the owner to assign the role. 

If you need to assign permissions, follow the steps in Prepare for an Azure user account. 

Prepare for migration 

To prepare for server migration, you need to verify the server settings, and prepare to deploy a 

replication appliance. 

Check machine requirements 

Make sure machines comply with requirements for migration to Azure. 

    1. Verify server requirements. 

    2. Verify that source machines that you replicate to Azure comply with Azure VM 

      requirements. 

    3. Some Windows sources require a few additional changes. Migrating the source before 

      making these changes could prevent the VM from booting in Azure. For some operating 

      systems, Azure Migrate makes these changes automatically. 

Prepare for replication 

Azure Migrate: Server Migration uses a replication appliance to replicate machines to Azure. 

The replication appliance runs the following components: 

----------------------- Page 164-----------------------

      Configuration server: The configuration server coordinates communications between on- 

      premises and Azure, and manages data replication. 

      Process server: The process server acts as a replication gateway. It receives replication 

      data; optimizes it with caching, compression, and encryption, and sends it to a cache 

      storage account in Azure. 

Prepare for appliance deployment as follows: 

      Create a Windows Server 2016 machine to host the replication appliance. Review the 

      machine requirements. 

      The replication appliance uses MySQL. Review the options for installing MySQL on the 

      appliance. 

      Review the Azure URLs required for the replication appliance to access public and 

      government clouds. 

      Review port access requirements for the replication appliance. 

  ７ Note 

  The replication appliance should be installed on a machine other than the source machine 

  you're replicating or migrating, and not on any machine that has had the Azure Migrate 

   discovery and assessment appliance installed to before. 

Download replication appliance installer 

To download the replication appliance installer, follow these steps: 

   1. In the Azure Migrate project > Servers, in Azure Migrate: Server Migration, select 

      Discover. 

----------------------- Page 165-----------------------

2. In Discover machines > Are your machines virtualized?, select Physical or other (AWS, 

   GCP, Xen, etc.). 

3. In Target region, select the Azure region to which you want to migrate the machines. 

4. Select Confirm that the target region for migration is region-name. 

----------------------- Page 166-----------------------

5. Select Create resources. This creates an Azure Site Recovery vault in the background. 

        If you've already set up migration with Azure Migrate Server Migration, the target 

        option can't be configured, since resources were set up previously. 

        You can't change the target region for this project after selecting this button. 

        All subsequent migrations are to this region. 

6. In Do you want to install a new replication appliance?, select Install a replication 

  appliance. 

7. In Download and install the replication appliance software, download the appliance 

   installer, and the registration key. You need to the key in order to register the appliance. 

  The key is valid for five days after it's downloaded. 

                                                                                            

8. Copy the appliance setup file and key file to the Windows Server 2016 machine you 

  created for the appliance. 

9. After the installation completes, the Appliance configuration wizard will launch 

  automatically (You can also launch the wizard manually by using the cspsconfigtool 

  shortcut that is created on the desktop of the appliance machine). Use the  Manage 

  Accounts tab of the wizard to create a dummy account with the following details: 

        "guest" as the friendly name 

        "username" as the username 

        "password" as the password for the account. 

  You use this dummy account in the Enable Replication stage. 

----------------------- Page 167-----------------------

  10. After setup completes, and the appliance restarts, in  Discover machines, select the new 

      appliance in Select Configuration Server, and select Finalize registration. Finalize 

      registration performs a couple of final tasks to prepare the replication appliance. 

                                                                                                  

Install the Mobility service 

Install the Mobility service agent on the servers you want to migrate. The agent installers are 

available on the replication appliance. Find the right installer, and install the agent on each 

machine you want to migrate. 

To install the Mobility service, follow these steps: 

    1. Sign in to the replication appliance. 

   2. Navigate to  %ProgramData%\ASR\home\svsystems\pushinstallsvc\repository . 

   3. Find the installer for the machine operating system and version. Review supported 

      operating systems. 

   4. Copy the installer file to the machine you want to migrate. 

   5. Make sure that you have the passphrase that was generated when you deployed the 

      appliance. 

            Store the file in a temporary text file on the machine. 

            You can obtain the passphrase on the replication appliance. From the command line, 

            run  C:\ProgramData\ASR\home\svsystems\bin\genpassphrase.exe -v to view the 

            current passphrase. 

            Don't regenerate the passphrase. This breaks connectivity and you have to reregister 

            the replication appliance. 

            In the /Platfor m parameter, specify  VMware for both VMware machines and physical 

            machines. 

   6. Connect to the machine and extract the contents of the installer file to a local folder (such 

      as c:\temp). Run this in an admin command prompt: 

        Console 

----------------------- Page 168-----------------------

         ren Microsoft-ASR_UA*Windows*release.exe MobilityServiceInstaller.exe 
         MobilityServiceInstaller.exe /q /x:C:\Temp\Extracted 
         cd C:\Temp\Extracted 

   7. Run the Mobility Service Installer: 

        Console 

         UnifiedAgent.exe /Role "MS" /Platform "VmWare" /Silent 

   8. Register the agent with the replication appliance: 

        Console 

         cd C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Azure Site Recovery\agent 
         UnifiedAgentConfigurator.exe  /CSEndPoint <replication appliance IP address>  
         /PassphraseFilePath <Passphrase File Path> 

It might take some time after installation for discovered machines to appear in Azure Migrate: 

Server Migration. As VMs are discovered, the Discovered servers count rises. 

Prepare source machines 

To prepare source machines, you need information from the cluster. 

   Ｕ Caution 

         Maintain disk ownership throughout the replication process until the final cutover. If 

        there's a change in disk ownership, there's a chance that the volumes could be 

        corrupted and replication would need to be retriggered. Set the preferred owner for 

        each disk to avoid transfer of ownership during the replication process. 

----------------------- Page 169-----------------------

          Avoid patching activities and system restarts during the replication process to avoid 

          transfer of disk ownership. 

To prepare source machines, do the following: 

    1. Identify disk ownership: Sign in to one of the cluster nodes and open Failover Cluster 

       Manager. Identify the owner node for the disks to determine the disks that need to be 

       migrated with each server. 

    2. Retrieve cluster information: Run the  Get-ClusterInfo.ps1 script on a cluster node to 

       retrieve information on the cluster resources. The script will output the role name, 

       resource name, IP, and probe port in the  Cluster-Config.csv file. Use this CSV file to 

       create and assign resource in Azure later in this article. 

          PowerShell 

          ./Get-ClusterInfo.ps1 

Create load balancer 

For the cluster and cluster roles to respond properly to requests, an Azure Load balancer is 

required. Without a load balancer, the other VMs are unable to reach the cluster IP address as 

it's not recognized as belonging to the network or the cluster. 

    1. Fill out the columns in the  Cluster-Config.csv file: 

                                                                                                ﾉ    Expand table 

        Column           Description 
        header 

         NewIP           Specify the IP address in the Azure virtual network (or subnet) for each resource in 
                         the CSV file. 

         ServicePort     Specify the service port to be used by each resource in the CSV file. For SQL cluster 
                         resource, use the same value for service port as the probe port in the CSV. For other 
                         cluster roles, the default values used are 1433 but you can continue to use the port 
                         numbers that are configured in your current setup. 

    2. Run the  Create-ClusterLoadBalancer.ps1 script to create the load balancer using the 

       following mandatory parameters: 

----------------------- Page 170-----------------------

                                                                                              ﾉ    Expand table 

        Parameter                  Type          Description 

        ConfigFilePath             Mandatory     Specify the path for the  Cluster-Config.csv file that you 

                                                 have filled out in the previous step. 

         ResourceGroupName         Mandatory     Specify the name of the resource Group in which the load 
                                                 balancer is to be created. 

        VNetName                   Mandatory     Specify the name of the Azure virtual network that the load 
                                                 balancer will be associated to. 

        SubnetName                 Mandatory     Specify the name of the subnet in the Azure virtual network 
                                                 that the load balancer will be associated to. 

        VNetResourceGroupName      Mandatory     Specify the name of the resource group for the Azure virtual 
                                                 network that the load balancer will be associated to. 

         Location                  Mandatory     Specify the location in which the load balancer should be 
                                                 created. 

         LoadBalancerName          Mandatory     Specify the name of the load balancer to be created. 

          PowerShell 

          ./Create-ClusterLoadBalancer.ps1 -ConfigFilePath ./cluster-config.csv - 
          ResourceGroupName $resourcegroupname -VNetName $vnetname -subnetName  
          $subnetname -VnetResourceGroupName $vnetresourcegroupname -Location "eastus"  
          -LoadBalancerName $loadbalancername 

Replicate machines 

Now, select machines for migration. You can replicate up to 10 machines together. If you need 

to replicate more, then replicate them simultaneously in batches of 10. 

    1. In the Azure Migrate project > Servers, Azure Migrate: Server Migration, select 

       Replicate. 

----------------------- Page 171-----------------------

2. In Replicate, > Source settings > Are your machines virtualized?, select Physical or other 

   (AWS, GCP, Xen, etc.). 

3. In On-premises appliance, select the name of the Azure Migrate appliance that you set 

   up. 

4. In Process Server, select the name of the replication appliance. 

5. In Guest credentials, select the dummy account created previously during the  replication 

   installer setup. Then select Next: Virtual machines. 

----------------------- Page 172-----------------------

                                                                                      

6. In Virtual Machines, in Import migration settings from an assessment?, leave the default 

  setting No, I'll specify the migration settings manually. 

7. Check each VM you want to migrate. Then select Next: Target settings. 

                                                                                      

8. In Target settings, select the subscription, and target region to which you're migrating, 

  and specify the resource group in which the Azure VMs will reside after migration. 

----------------------- Page 173-----------------------

 9. In Virtual Network, select the Azure VNet/subnet to which the Azure VMs will be joined 

    after migration. 

10. In Availability options, select: 

         Availability Zone to pin the migrated machine to a specific Availability Zone in the 

          region. Use this option to distribute servers that form a multi-node application tier 

          across Availability Zones. If you select this option, you need to specify the 

         Availability Zone to use for each of the selected machine in the Compute tab. This 

          option is only available if the target region selected for the migration supports 

         Availability Zones 

         Availability Set to place the migrated machine in an Availability Set. The target 

          Resource Group that was selected must have one or more availability sets in order 

          to use this option. 

          No infrastructure redundancy required option if you don't need either of these 

          availability configurations for the migrated machines. 

11. In Disk encryption type, select: 

          Encryption-at-rest with platform-managed key 

          Encryption-at-rest with customer-managed key 

          Double encryption with platform-managed and customer-managed keys 

      ７ Note 

      To replicate VMs with CMK, you need to create a disk encryption set under the 

      target Resource Group. A disk encryption set object maps Managed Disks to a Key 

      Vault that contains the CMK to use for SSE. 

12. In Azure Hybrid Benefit: 

          Select No if you don't want to apply Azure Hybrid Benefit. Then select  Next. 

          Select Yes if you have Windows Server machines that are covered with active 

          Software Assurance or Windows Server subscriptions, and you want to apply the 

          benefit to the machines you're migrating. Then select Next. 

----------------------- Page 174-----------------------

                                                                                                

13. In Compute, review the VM name, size, OS disk type, and availability configuration (if 

    selected in the previous step). VMs must conform with Azure requirements. 

         VM size: If you're using assessment recommendations, the VM size dropdown list 

          shows the recommended size. Otherwise Azure Migrate picks a size based on the 

          closest match in the Azure subscription. Alternatively, pick a manual size in Azure 

         VM size. 

         OS disk: Specify the OS (boot) disk for the VM. The OS disk is the disk that has the 

          operating system bootloader and installer. 

         Availability Zone: Specify the Availability Zone to use. 

         Availability Set: Specify the Availability Set to use. 

----------------------- Page 175-----------------------

                                                                                             

14. In Disks, specify whether the VM disks should be replicated to Azure, and select the disk 

    type (standard SSD/HDD or premium managed disks) in Azure. Then select  Next. 

         Use the list that you had made earlier to select the disks to be replicated with each 

         server. Exclude other disks from replication. 

                                                                                             

15. In Review and start replication, review the settings, and select  Replicate to start the initial 

    replication for the servers. 

７ Note 

You can update replication settings any time before replication starts,  Manage > 

 Replicating machines. Settings can't be changed after replication starts. 

----------------------- Page 176-----------------------

Track and monitor 

Replication proceeds in the following sequence: 

      When you select Replicate a Start Replication job begins. 

      When the Start Replication job finishes successfully, the machines begin their initial 

      replication to Azure. 

      After initial replication finishes, delta replication begins. Incremental changes to on- 

      premises disks are periodically replicated to the replica disks in Azure. 

      After the initial replication is completed, configure the Compute and Network items for 

      each VM. Clusters typically have multiple NICs but only one NIC is required for the 

      migration (set the others as don't create). 

You can track job status in the portal notifications. 

You can monitor replication status by selecting on Replicating servers in Azure Migrate: 

Server Migration. 

Migrate VMs 

After machines are replicated, they are ready for migration. To migrate your servers, follow 

these steps: 

   1. In the Azure Migrate project > Servers > Azure Migrate: Server Migration, select 

      Replicating servers. 

----------------------- Page 177-----------------------

2. To ensure that the migrated server is synchronized with the source server, stop the SQL 

   Server resource (in Failover Cluster Manager > Roles > Other resources) while ensuring 

   that the cluster disks are online. 

3. In Replicating machines > select server name > Overview, ensure that the last 

   synchronized timestamp is after you have stopped SQL Server resource on the servers to 

   be migrated before you move onto the next step. This should only take a few of minutes. 

4. In Replicating machines, right-click the VM > Migrate. 

5. In Migrate > Shut down virtual machines and perform a planned migration with no 

   data loss, select No > OK. 

     ７ Note 

     For Physical Server Migration, shut down of source machine isn't supported 

     automatically. The recommendation is to bring the application down as part of the 

     migration window (don't let the applications accept any connections) and then 

     initiate the migration (the server needs to be kept running, so remaining changes 

     can be synchronized) before the migration is completed. 

6. A migration job starts for the VM. Track the job in Azure notifications. 

----------------------- Page 178-----------------------

    7. After the job finishes, you can view and manage the VM from the Virtual Machines page. 

Reconfigure cluster 

After your VMs have migrated, reconfigure the cluster. Follow these steps: 

    1. Shut down the migrated servers in Azure. 

    2. Add the migrated machines to the backend pool of the load balancer. Navigate to  Load 

       Balancer > Backend pools. 

    3. Select the backend pool, and add the migrated machines. 

    4. Reconfigure the migrated disks of the servers as shared disks by running the  Create- 

       SharedDisks.ps1 script. The script is interactive and will prompt for a list of machines and 

       then show available disks to be extracted (only data disks). You're prompted once to 

       select which machines contain the drives to be turned into shared disks. Once selected, 

       you're prompted again, once per machine, to pick the specific disks. 

                                                                                                ﾉ   Expand table 

        Parameter              Type           Description 

         ResourceGroupName     Mandatory     Specify the name of the resource group containing the migrated 

                                             servers. 

         NumberofNodes         Optional      Specify the number of nodes in your failover cluster instance. 

                                             This parameter is used to identify the right SKU for the shared 
                                             disks to be created. By default, the script assumes the number of 
                                              nodes in the cluster to be 2. 

         DiskNamePrefix        Optional      Specify the prefix that you'd want to add to the names of your 

                                             shared disks. 

          PowerShell 

          ./Create-SharedDisks.ps1 -ResourceGroupName $resourcegroupname -NumberofNodes  
          $nodesincluster -DiskNamePrefix $disknameprefix 

    5. Attach the shared disks to the migrated servers by running the  Attach-SharedDisks.ps1 

       script. 

                                                                                                ﾉ   Expand table 

----------------------- Page 179-----------------------

        Parameter              Type          Description 

         ResourceGroupName     Mandatory     Specify the name of the resource group containing the migrated 
                                             servers. 

         StartingLunNumber     Optional      Specify the starting LUN number that is available for the shared 
                                             disks to be attached to. By default, the script tries to attach 
                                             shared disks to LUN starting 0. 

          PowerShell 

          ./Attach-ShareDisks .ps1 -ResourceGroupName $resourcegroupname 

    6. Start the migrated servers in Azure and sign in to any node. 

    7. Copy the  Cluster-Config.csv file and run the  Update-ClusterConfig.ps1 script passing 

       the CSV as a parameter. This will ensure the cluster resources are updated with the new 

       configuration for the cluster to work in Azure. 

          PowerShell 

          ./Update-ClusterConfig.ps1 -ConfigFilePath $filepath 

Your SQL Server failover cluster instance is ready. 

Complete the migration 

    1. After the migration is done, right-click the VM > Stop migration. This does the following: 

             Stops replication for the on-premises machine. 

             Removes the machine from the Replicating servers count in Azure Migrate: Server 

             Migration. 

             Cleans up replication state information for the machine. 

    2. Install the Azure VM for Windows agent on the migrated machines. 

    3. Perform any post-migration app tweaks, such as updating database connection strings, 

       and web server configurations. 

    4. Perform final application and migration acceptance testing on the migrated application 

       now running in Azure. 

    5. Cut over traffic to the migrated Azure VM instance. 

    6. Remove the on-premises VMs from your local VM inventory. 

    7. Remove the on-premises VMs from local backups. 

----------------------- Page 180-----------------------

   8. Update any internal documentation to show the new location and IP address of the Azure 

     VMs. 

Post-migration best practices 

      For SQL Server: 

         Install SQL Server IaaS Agent extension to automate management and administration 

        tasks. The SQL IaaS Agent extension only supports limited functionality on SQL Server 

        failover clustered instances. 

        Optimize SQL Server performance on Azure VMs. 

         Understand pricing for SQL Server on Azure. 

      For increased security: 

         Lock down and limit inbound traffic access with Microsoft Defender for Cloud - Just in 

        time administration. 

         Restrict network traffic to management endpoints with Network security groups. 

         Deploy Azure Disk Encryption to help secure disks, and keep data safe from theft and 

        unauthorized access. 

         Read more about securing IaaS resources      , and visit the Microsoft Defender for 

        Cloud    . 

      For monitoring and management: 

        Consider deploying Microsoft Cost Management to monitor resource usage and 

        spending. 

Related content 

     Get started: Accelerate migration 

----------------------- Page 181-----------------------

Migration overview: SQL Server to Azure 
SQL Database 

     Summarize this article for me 

Applies to:       Azure SQL Database 

Learn about the options and considerations for migrating your SQL Server databases to Azure 

SQL Database. 

You can migrate existing SQL Server databases running on: 

      SQL Server on Virtual Machines 

      Amazon EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud) 

      Amazon RDS (Relational Database Service) for SQL Server 

      Google Compute Engine 

      Cloud SQL for SQL Server - GCP (Google Cloud Platform) 

For other migration guides, see Database Migration. 

Overview 

Azure SQL Database is a recommended target option for SQL Server workloads that require a 

fully managed platform as a service (PaaS). SQL Database handles most database management 

functions. It also has built-in high availability, intelligent query processing, scalability, and 

performance capabilities to suit many application types. 

SQL Database provides flexibility with multiple deployment models and service tiers that cater 

to different types of applications or workloads. 

One of the key benefits of migrating to SQL Database is that you can modernize your 

application by using the PaaS capabilities. You can then eliminate any dependency on technical 

components that are scoped at the instance level, such as SQL Agent jobs. 

You can also save costs by using the Azure Hybrid Benefit         for SQL Server to migrate your 

SQL Server on-premises licenses to Azure SQL Database. This option is available if you choose 

the vCore-based purchasing model. 

Be sure to review the SQL Server database engine features available in Azure SQL Database to 

validate the supportability of your migration target. 

Considerations 

----------------------- Page 182-----------------------

The key factors to consider when you're evaluating migration options are: 

      Number of servers and databases 

      Size of databases 

      Acceptable business downtime during the migration process 

The migration options listed in this guide take these factors into account. For logical data 

migration to Azure SQL Database, the time to migrate can depend on both the number of 

objects in a database and the size of the database. 

Tools are available for various workloads and user preferences. Some tools can be used to 

perform a quick migration of a single database through a UI-based tool. Other tools can 

automate the migration of multiple databases to handle migrations at scale. 

Choose an appropriate target 

Consider general guidelines to help you choose the right deployment model and service tier of 

Azure SQL Database. You can choose compute and storage resources during deployment and 

then change them afterward by using the Azure portal without incurring downtime for your 

application. 

Deployment models: Understand your application workload and the usage pattern to decide 

between a single database or an elastic pool. 

      A single database represents a fully managed database that's suitable for most modern 

      cloud applications and microservices. 

      An elastic pool is a collection of single databases with a shared set of resources, such as 

      CPU or memory. It's suitable for combining databases in a pool with predictable usage 

      patterns that can effectively share the same set of resources. 

Purchasing models: Choose between the vCore, database transaction unit (DTU), or serverless 

purchasing models. 

      The vCore model lets you choose the number of vCores for Azure SQL Database, so it's 

      the easiest choice when you're translating from on-premises SQL Server. This is the only 

      option that supports saving license costs with the Azure Hybrid Benefit    . 

      The DTU-based purchasing model abstracts the underlying compute, memory, and I/O 

      resources to provide a blended DTU. 

      The serverless model is for workloads that require automatic on-demand scaling with 

      compute resources billed per second of usage. The serverless compute tier automatically 

      pauses databases during inactive periods (where only storage is billed). It automatically 

      resumes databases when activity returns. 

----------------------- Page 183-----------------------

Service tiers: Choose between three service tiers designed for different types of applications. 

      General Purpose/Standard service tier offers a balanced budget-oriented option with 

      compute and storage suitable to deliver applications in the middle and lower tiers. 

      Redundancy is built in at the storage layer to recover from failures. It's designed for most 

      database workloads. 

      Business Critical/Premium service tier is for high-tier applications that require high 

      transaction rates, low-latency I/O, and a high level of resiliency. Secondary replicas are 

      available for failover and to offload read workloads. 

      Hyperscale service tier is intended for all customers who require higher performance and 

      availability, fast backup and restore, and/or fast storage and compute scalability. This 

      includes customers who are moving to the cloud to modernize their applications as well 

      as customers who are already using other service tiers in Azure SQL Database. The 

      Hyperscale service tier supports a broad range of database workloads, from pure OLTP to 

      pure analytics. It's optimized for OLTP and hybrid transaction and analytical processing 

      (HTAP) workloads. 

   ） Important 

   Transaction log rate is governed in Azure SQL Database to limit high ingestion rates. As 

   such, during migration, you might have to scale target database resources (vCores or 

   DTUs) to ease pressure on CPU or throughput. Choose the appropriately sized target 

   database, but plan to scale resources up for the migration if necessary. 

SQL Server VM alternative 

Your business might have requirements that make SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines a 

more suitable target than Azure SQL Database. 

If one of the following conditions applies to your business, consider moving to a SQL Server 

virtual machine (VM) instead: 

      You require direct access to the operating system or file system, such as to install third- 

      party or custom agents on the same virtual machine with SQL Server. 

      You have strict dependency on features that are still not supported, such as 

      FileStream/FileTable, PolyBase, and cross-instance transactions. 

      You need to stay at a specific version of SQL Server (2012, for example). 

      Your compute requirements are much lower than a managed instance offers (one vCore, 

      for example), and database consolidation isn't an acceptable option. 

----------------------- Page 184-----------------------

Migration tools 

We recommend the following migration tools: 

                                                                                               ﾉ    Expand table 

  Technology               Description 

  Azure Migrate           This Azure service helps you discover and assess your SQL data estate at scale on 
                          VMware. It provides Azure SQL deployment recommendations, target sizing, and 
                           monthly estimates. 

  Azure Database          Azure Database Migration Service is a fully managed service designed to enable 
  Migration Service       seamless migrations from multiple database sources to Azure data platforms with 
                           minimal downtime. 

The following table lists alternative migration tools: 

                                                                                               ﾉ    Expand table 

  Technology             Description 

  Transactional          Replicate data from source SQL Server database tables to Azure SQL Database by 
  replication            providing a publisher-subscriber type migration option while maintaining 
                         transactional consistency. Incremental data changes are propagated to subscribers 
                         as they occur on the publishers. 

  Import Export          BACPAC is a Windows file with a .bacpac extension that encapsulates a database's 
  Service/BACPAC         schema and data. You can use BACPAC to both export data from a SQL Server 
                         source and import the data into Azure SQL Database. A BACPAC file can be 
                         imported to a new SQL database through the Azure portal. 

                         For scale and performance with large databases sizes or a large number of 
                         databases, consider using the SqlPackage command-line tool to export and import 
                         databases. 

  Bulk copy              The bulk copy program (bcp) tool copies data from an instance of SQL Server into a 
                         data file. Use the tool to export the data from your source and import the data file 
                         into the target SQL database. 

                         For high-speed bulk copy operations to move data to Azure SQL Database, you can 
                         use the Smart Bulk Copy tool to maximize transfer speed by taking advantage of 
                         parallel copy tasks. 

  Azure Data Factory     The Copy activity in Azure Data Factory migrates data from source SQL Server 
                         databases to Azure SQL Database by using built-in connectors and an integration 
                         runtime. 

----------------------- Page 185-----------------------

 Technology              Description 

                         Data Factory supports a wide range of connectors to move data from SQL Server 
                         sources to Azure SQL Database. 

  Command line           You can migrate single databases or at scale using PowerShell and Azure CLI. 
  tools 

Compare migration options 

Compare migration options to choose the path that's appropriate to your business needs. 

The following table compares the migration options that we recommend: 

                                                                                             ﾉ   Expand table 

  Migration       When to use                            Considerations 
  option 

 Azure            - Discovery and assess single          - All pre-migration steps such as discovery, 
  Migrate         databases or at scale from             assessments, and right-sizing of on-premises 
                  different environments.                resources are included for infrastructure, data, and 
                                                         applications. 

  Command         You can migrate single databases       - Time to complete migration depends on database 
  line tools      or at scale using PowerShell and       size and the number of objects in the database. 
                  Azure CLI in offline mode. 

                  Supported sources: 
                  - SQL Server (2008 onward) on- 
                  premises, or on Azure Virtual 
                  Machines 
                  - SQL Server on Amazon EC2 
                  - Amazon RDS for SQL Server 
                  - SQL Server on Google Compute 
                  Engine 

The following table compares the alternative migration options: 

                                                                                             ﾉ   Expand table 

  Method or             When to use                           Considerations 
  technology 

  Transactional         - Migrate by continuously             - Setup is relatively complex compared to 
  replication           publishing changes from source        other migration options. 
                        database tables to target SQL         - Provides a continuous replication option to 

----------------------- Page 186-----------------------

  Method or              When to use                             Considerations 
  technology 

                         Database tables.                        migrate data (without taking the databases 
                         - Do full or partial database           offline). 
                         migrations of selected tables           - Transactional replication has limitations to 
                         (subset of a database).                 consider when you're setting up the publisher 
                                                                 on the source SQL Server instance. See 
                         Supported sources:                      Limitations on publishing objects to learn 
                         - SQL Server (2016 to 2019) with        more. 

                         some limitations                        - It's possible to monitor replication activity. 
                         - AWS EC2 
                         - GCP Compute SQL Server VM 

  Import Export          - Migrate individual line-of-           - Requires downtime because data needs to be 
  Service/BACPAC         business application databases.         exported at the source and imported at the 
                         - Suited for smaller databases.         destination. 
                         - Doesn't require a separate            - The file formats and data types used in the 
                         migration service or tool.              export or import need to be consistent with 
                                                                 table schemas to avoid truncation or data-type 
                         Supported sources:                      mismatch errors. 
                         - SQL Server (2005 to 2019) on-         - Time taken to export a database with a large 
                         premises or Azure VM                    number of objects can be significantly higher. 
                         - AWS EC2 
                         - AWS RDS 
                         - GCP Compute SQL Server VM 

  Bulk copy              - Do full or partial data migrations.   - Requires downtime for exporting data from 
                         - Can accommodate downtime.             the source and importing into the target. 
                                                                 - The file formats and data types used in the 
                         Supported sources:                      export or import need to be consistent with 
                         - SQL Server (2005 to 2019) on-         table schemas. 
                         premises or Azure VM 
                         - AWS EC2 
                         - AWS RDS 
                         - GCP Compute SQL Server VM 

  Azure Data             - Migrate and/or transform data         - Requires creating data movement pipelines in 
  Factory                from source SQL Server databases.       Data Factory to move data from source to 
                         - Merging data from multiple            destination. 
                         sources of data to Azure SQL            - Cost    is an important consideration and is 
                         Database is typically for business      based on factors like pipeline triggers, activity 
                         intelligence (BI) workloads.            runs, and duration of data movement. 

Feature interoperability 

There are more considerations when you're migrating workloads that rely on other SQL Server 

features. 

----------------------- Page 187-----------------------

SQL Server Integration Services 

Migrate SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) packages to Azure by redeploying the packages 

to the Azure-SSIS runtime in Azure Data Factory. Azure Data Factory supports migration of SSIS 

packages by providing a runtime built to run SSIS packages in Azure. Alternatively, you can 

rewrite the SSIS ETL (extract, transform, load) logic natively in Azure Data Factory by using data 

flows. 

SQL Server Reporting Services 

Migrate SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) reports to paginated reports in Power BI. Use 

the RDL Migration Tool     to help prepare and migrate your reports. Microsoft developed this 

tool to help customers migrate Report Definition Language (RDL) reports from their SSRS 

servers to Power BI. It's available on GitHub, and it documents an end-to-end walkthrough of 

the migration scenario. 

High availability 

Manual setup of SQL Server high-availability features like Always On failover cluster instances 

and Always On availability groups becomes obsolete on the target SQL database. High- 

availability architecture is already built into both General Purpose (standard availability model) 

and Business Critical (premium availability model) service tiers for Azure SQL Database. The 

Business Critical/Premium service tier also provides read scale-out that allows connecting into 

one of the secondary nodes for read-only purposes. 

Beyond the high-availability architecture that's included in Azure SQL Database, the failover 

groups feature allows you to manage the replication and failover of databases to a server in 

another region. 

Logins and groups 

Windows logins aren't supported in Azure SQL Database, create a login from Microsoft Entra 

ID (formerly Azure Active Directory) instead. Manually recreate any SQL logins. 

SQL Agent j obs 

SQL Agent jobs aren't directly supported in Azure SQL Database. Instead, use elastic jobs. 

System databases 

----------------------- Page 188-----------------------

For Azure SQL Database, the only applicable system databases are master and  tempdb . To learn 

more, see tempdb in Azure SQL Database. 

Advanced features 

Be sure to take advantage of the advanced cloud-based features in SQL Database. For example, 

you don't need to worry about managing backups because the service does it for you. You can 

restore to any point in time within the retention period. 

To strengthen security, consider using Microsoft Entra authentication, auditing, threat 

detection, row-level security, and dynamic data masking. 

In addition to advanced management and security features, SQL Database provides tools that 

can help you monitor and tune your workload. Azure SQL Analytics (Preview) is an advanced 

solution for monitoring the performance of all of your databases in Azure SQL Database at 

scale and across multiple subscriptions in a single view. Azure SQL Analytics collects and 

visualizes key performance metrics with built-in intelligence for performance troubleshooting. 

Automatic tuning continuously monitors performance of your SQL execution plan and 

automatically fixes identified performance issues. 

Migration assets 

For more assistance, see the following resources that were developed for real-world migration 

projects. 

                                                                                            ﾉ    Expand table 

 Asset                       Description 

  Data workload              This tool provides suggested "best fit" target platforms, cloud readiness, and 
  assessment model and       an application/database remediation level for a workload. It offers simple, one- 
  tool                       click calculation and report generation that helps to accelerate large estate 
                             assessments by providing an automated and uniform decision process for 
                             target platforms. 

  Bulk database creation     You can use a set of three PowerShell scripts that create a resource group 
  with PowerShell            (create_rg.ps1), the logical server in Azure (create_sqlserver.ps1), and a SQL 
                             database (create_sqldb.ps1). The scripts include loop capabilities so you can 
                             iterate and create as many servers and databases as necessary. 

  Bulk schema                This asset creates a resource group, creates one or multiple  logical servers in 
  deployment with            Azure to host Azure SQL Database, exports every schema from an on-premises 

----------------------- Page 189-----------------------

 Asset                        Description 

  MSSQL-Scripter and          SQL Server instance (or multiple SQL Server 2005+ instances), and imports the 
  PowerShell                  schemas to Azure SQL Database. 

  Convert SQL Server          This script migrates your source SQL Server Agent jobs to elastic database 
 Agent jobs into elastic      jobs. 
  database jobs 

  Utility to move on-         A PowerShell script can create a T-SQL command script to re-create logins and 
  premises SQL Server         select database users from on-premises SQL Server to Azure SQL Database. 
  logins to Azure SQL         The tool allows automatic mapping of Windows Server Active Directory 
  Database                    accounts to Microsoft Entra accounts, along with optionally migrating SQL 
                              Server native logins. 

  Perfmon data collection     You can use the Logman tool to collect Perfmon data (to help you understand 
  automation by using         baseline performance) and get migration target recommendations. This tool 
  Logman                      uses logman.exe to create the command that will create, start, stop, and delete 
                              performance counters set on a remote SQL Server instance. 

The Data SQL Engineering team developed these resources. This team's core charter is to 

unblock and accelerate complex modernization for data platform migration projects to 

Microsoft's Azure data platform. 

Related content 

       Migration guide: SQL Server to Azure SQL Database 

       Services and tools available for data migration scenarios 

      What is Azure SQL Database? 

       Cloud Adoption Framework for Azure 

       Best practices for costing and sizing workloads migrated to Azure 

 Last updated on 02/19/2026 

----------------------- Page 190-----------------------

Assessment rules for SQL Server to 
Azure SQL Database migration 

Article  • 01/08/2025 

Applies to:        Azure SQL Database 

Migration tools validate your source SQL Server instance by running several assessment 

rules to identify issues that must be addressed before migrating your SQL Server 

database to Azure SQL Database. 

This article provides a list of the rules used to assess the feasibility of migrating your 

SQL Server database to Azure SQL Database. 

Rules Summary 

                                                                                   ﾉ   Expand table 

  Rule Title                               Level       Category    Details 

  AgentJobs                                Instance    Warning     SQL Server Agent jobs aren't 
                                                                   available in Azure SQL Database. 

  BulkInsert                               Database    Issue       BULK INSERT with non-Azure blob 
                                                                   data source isn't supported in 
                                                                   Azure SQL Database. 

  ClrAssemblies                            Database    Issue       SQL CLR assemblies aren't 

                                                                   supported in Azure SQL Database. 

  ComputeClause                            Database    Warning     COMPUTE clause is no longer 
                                                                   supported and has been removed. 

  CrossDatabaseReferences                  Database    Issue       Cross-database queries aren't 
                                                                   supported in Azure SQL Database. 

  CryptographicProvider                    Database    Issue       A use of CREATE CRYPTOGRAPHIC 
                                                                   PROVIDER or ALTER 
                                                                   CRYPTOGRAPHIC PROVIDER was 
                                                                   found, which isn't supported in 
                                                                   Azure SQL Database. 

  DatabaseMail                             Instance    Warning     Database Mail isn't supported in 
                                                                   Azure SQL Database. 

----------------------- Page 191-----------------------

Rule Title                               Level       Category     Details 

DatabasePrincipalAlias                   Database     Issue       SYS.DATABASE_PRINCIPAL_ALIASES 
                                                                  is no longer supported and has 
                                                                  been removed. 

DbCompatLevelLowerThan100                Database    Warning      Azure SQL Database doesn't 
                                                                  support compatibility levels below 
                                                                  100. 

DisableDefCNSTCHK                        Database     Issue       SET option 
                                                                  DISABLE_DEF_CNST_CHK is no 
                                                                  longer supported and has been 
                                                                  removed. 

FastFirstRowHint                         Database    Warning      FASTFIRSTROW query hint is no 
                                                                  longer supported and has been 
                                                                  removed. 

FileStream                               Database     Issue       FILESTREAM isn't supported in 
                                                                  Azure SQL Database. 

LinkedServer                             Database     Issue       Linked server functionality isn't 
                                                                  supported in Azure SQL Database. 

MSDTCTransactSQL                         Database     Issue       BEGIN DISTRIBUTED 
                                                                  TRANSACTION isn't supported in 
                                                                  Azure SQL Database. 

NextColumn                               Database     Issue       Tables and Columns named NEXT 
                                                                  lead to an error In Azure SQL 
                                                                  Database. 

NonANSILeftOuterJoinSyntax               Database    Warning      Non-ANSI style left outer join is no 
                                                                  longer supported and has been 
                                                                  removed. 

NonANSIRightOuterJoinSyntax              Database    Warning      Non-ANSI style right outer join is 
                                                                  no longer supported and has been 
                                                                  removed. 

OpenRowsetWithNonBlobDataSourceBulk      Database     Issue       OpenRowSet used in bulk 
                                                                  operation with non-Azure blob 
                                                                  storage data source isn't 
                                                                  supported in Azure SQL Database. 

OpenRowsetWithSQLAndNonSQLProvider       Database     Issue       OpenRowSet with SQL or non-SQL 
                                                                  provider isn't supported in Azure 
                                                                  SQL Database. 

RAISERROR                                Database    Warning      Legacy style RAISERROR calls 
                                                                  should be replaced with modern 

----------------------- Page 192-----------------------

  Rule Title                                 Level       Category     Details 

                                                                      equivalents. 

  ServerAudits                               Instance    Warning      Server Audits isn't supported in 

                                                                      Azure SQL Database. 

  ServerCredentials                          Instance    Warning      Server scoped credential isn't 

                                                                      supported in Azure SQL Database. 

  ServerScopedTriggers                       Instance    Warning      Server-scoped trigger isn't 

                                                                      supported in Azure SQL Database. 

  ServiceBroker                              Database    Issue        Service Broker feature isn't 

                                                                      supported in Azure SQL Database. 

  SQLDBDatabaseSize                          Database    Issue        Azure SQL Database doesn't 

                                                                      support database size greater than 
                                                                      100 TB. 

  SqlMail                                    Database    Warning      SQL Mail has been discontinued. 

  SystemProcedures110                        Database    Warning      Detected statements that 
                                                                      reference removed system stored 
                                                                      procedures that aren't available in 
                                                                      Azure SQL Database. 

  TraceFlags                                 Instance    Warning      Azure SQL Database doesn't 
                                                                      support trace flags. 

  WindowsAuthentication                      Instance    Warning      Database users mapped with 
                                                                      Windows authentication 

                                                                      (integrated security) aren't 
                                                                      supported in Azure SQL Database. 

  XpCmdshell                                 Database    Issue        xp_cmdshell isn't supported in 
                                                                      Azure SQL Database. 

BULK INSERT 

Title: BULK INSERT with non-Azure blob data source isn't supported in Azure SQL 

Database. 

Category: Issue 

Description 

Azure SQL Database can't access file shares or Windows folders. See the "Affected 

Objects" section for the specific uses of  BULK INSERT statements that don't reference an 

----------------------- Page 193-----------------------

Azure blob. Objects with  BULK INSERT where the source isn't Azure Blob Storage doesn't 

work after migrating to Azure SQL Database. 

Recommendation 

You need to convert  BULK INSERT statements that use local files or file shares to use files 

from Azure Blob Storage instead, when migrating to Azure SQL Database. Alternatively, 

migrate to SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

COMPUTE clause 

Title: COMPUTE clause is no longer supported and has been removed. 

Category: Warning 

Description 

The COMPUTE clause generates totals that appear as additional summary columns at 

the end of the result set. However, this clause is no longer supported in Azure SQL 

Database. 

Recommendation 

The T-SQL module needs to be rewritten using the ROLLUP operator instead. The code 

below demonstrates how  COMPUTE can be replaced with  ROLLUP : 

   SQL 

   USE AdventureWorks2022; 
   GO 

   SELECT SalesOrderID, 
       UnitPrice, 
       UnitPriceDiscount 
   FROM Sales.SalesOrderDetail 
   ORDER BY SalesOrderID COMPUTE SUM(UnitPrice), 
       SUM(UnitPriceDiscount) BY SalesOrderID; 
   GO 

   SELECT SalesOrderID, 
       UnitPrice, 
       UnitPriceDiscount, 
       SUM(UnitPrice) AS UnitPrice, 
       SUM(UnitPriceDiscount) AS UnitPriceDiscount 
   FROM Sales.SalesOrderDetail 
   GROUP BY SalesOrderID, 
       UnitPrice, 
       UnitPriceDiscount 
   WITH ROLLUP; 

For more information, see Discontinued Database Engine functionality in SQL Server. 

----------------------- Page 194-----------------------

CLR assemblies 

Title: SQL CLR assemblies aren't supported in Azure SQL Database 

Category: Issue 

Description 

Azure SQL Database doesn't support SQL CLR assemblies. 

Recommendation 

Currently, there's no way to achieve this in Azure SQL Database. The recommended 

alternative solutions require application code and database changes to use only 

assemblies supported by Azure SQL Database. Alternatively migrate to Azure SQL 

Managed Instance or SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines. 

For more information, see Unsupported Transact-SQL differences in SQL Database. 

Cryptographic provider 

Title: A use of CREATE CRYPTOGRAPHIC PROVIDER or ALTER CRYPTOGRAPHIC 

PROVIDER was found, which isn't supported in Azure SQL Database 

Category: Issue 

Description 

Azure SQL Database doesn't support CRYPTOGRAPHIC PROVIDER statements because it 

can't access files. See the Affected Objects section for the specific uses of 

CRYPTOGRAPHIC PROVIDER statements. Objects with  CREATE CRYPTOGRAPHIC PROVIDER or 

ALTER CRYPTOGRAPHIC PROVIDER doesn't work correctly after migrating to Azure SQL 

Database. 

Recommendation 

Review objects with  CREATE CRYPTOGRAPHIC PROVIDER or  ALTER CRYPTOGRAPHIC PROVIDER . 

In any such objects that are required, remove the uses of these features. Alternatively, 

migrate to SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

Cross database references 

Title: Cross-database queries aren't supported in Azure SQL Database 

Category: Issue 

Description 

Databases on this server use cross-database queries, which aren't supported in Azure 

SQL Database. 

----------------------- Page 195-----------------------

Recommendation 

Azure SQL Database doesn't support cross-database queries. The following actions are 

recommended: 

      Migrate the dependent databases to Azure SQL Database, and use Elastic 

      Database Query (currently in preview) functionality, to query across Azure SQL 

      databases. 

      Move the dependent datasets from other databases into the database that is being 

      migrated. 

      Migrate to Azure SQL Managed Instance. 

      Migrate to SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines. 

For more information, see Azure SQL Database elastic query overview (preview). 

Database compatibility 

Title: Azure SQL Database doesn't support compatibility levels below 100. 

Category: Warning 

Description 

Database compatibility level is a valuable tool to help with database modernization, by 

allowing the SQL Server Database Engine to be upgraded, while keeping connecting 

applications functional status by maintaining the same pre-upgrade database 

compatibility level. Azure SQL Database doesn't support compatibility levels below 100. 

Recommendation 

Evaluate if the application functionality is intact when the database compatibility level is 

upgraded to 100 on Azure SQL Managed Instance. Alternatively, migrate to SQL Server 

on Azure VMs. 

Database Mail 

Title: Database Mail isn't supported in Azure SQL Database. 

Category: Warning 

Description 

This server uses the Database Mail feature, which isn't supported in Azure SQL Database. 

Recommendation 

Consider migrating to Azure SQL Managed Instance that supports Database Mail. 

Alternatively, consider using Azure functions and SendGrid to accomplish mail 

functionality on Azure SQL Database. 

----------------------- Page 196-----------------------

Database principal alias 

Title: SYS.DATABASE_PRINCIPAL_ALIASES is no longer supported and has been 

removed. 

Category: Issue 

Description 

 sys.database_principal_aliases is no longer supported and has been removed in Azure 

SQL Database. 

Recommendation 

Use roles instead of aliases. 

For more information, see Discontinued Database Engine functionality in SQL Server. 

DISABLE_DEF_CNST_CHK option 

Title: SET option DISABLE_DEF_CNST_CHK is discontinued and has been removed. 

Category: Issue 

Description 

SET option DISABLE_DEF_CNST_CHK is discontinued and has been removed in Azure 

SQL Database. 

For more information, see Discontinued Database Engine functionality in SQL Server. 

FASTFIRSTROW hint 

Title: FASTFIRSTROW query hint is no longer supported and has been removed. 

Category: Warning 

Description 

FASTFIRSTROW query hint is no longer supported and has been removed in Azure SQL 

Database. 

Recommendation 

Instead of FASTFIRSTROW query hint use OPTION (FAST n). 

For more information, see Discontinued Database Engine functionality in SQL Server. 

FILESTREAM 

----------------------- Page 197-----------------------

Title: FILESTREAM isn't supported in Azure SQL Database 

Category: Issue 

Description 

The FILESTREAM feature, which allows you to store unstructured data such as text 

documents, images, and videos in NTFS file system, isn't supported in Azure SQL 

Database. 

Recommendation 

Upload the unstructured files to Azure Blob storage and store metadata related to these 

files (name, type, URL location, storage key etc.) in Azure SQL Database. You might have 

to re-engineer your application to enable streaming blobs to and from Azure SQL 

Database. Alternatively, migrate to SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

For more information, see Streaming blobs to and from Azure SQL blog       . 

Linked server 

Title: Linked server functionality isn't supported in Azure SQL Database 

Category: Issue 

Description 

Linked servers enable the SQL Server Database Engine to execute commands against 

OLE DB data sources outside of the instance of SQL Server. 

Recommendation 

Azure SQL Database doesn't support linked server functionality. The following actions 

are recommended to eliminate the need for linked servers: 

      Identify the dependent datasets from remote SQL servers and consider moving 

     these into the database being migrated. 

      Migrate the dependent databases to Azure and use Elastic Database Query 

      (preview) functionality to query across databases in Azure SQL Database. 

For more information, see Azure SQL Database elastic query overview (preview). 

MS DTC 

Title: BEGIN DISTRIBUTED TRANSACTION isn't supported in Azure SQL Database. 

Category: Issue 

Description 

Distributed transaction started by Transact SQL BEGIN DISTRIBUTED TRANSACTION and 

----------------------- Page 198-----------------------

managed by Microsoft Distributed Transaction Coordinator (MS DTC) isn't supported in 

Azure SQL Database. 

Recommendation 

Review affected objects section in Azure Migrate to see all objects using BEGIN 

DISTRIBUTED TRANSACTION. Consider migrating the participant databases to Azure 

SQL Managed Instance where distributed transactions across multiple instances are 

supported. 

For more information, see Transactions across multiple servers for Azure SQL Managed 

Instance. 

Alternatively, migrate to SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

OPENROWSET (bulk) 

Title: OpenRowSet used in bulk operation with non-Azure blob storage data source 

isn't supported in Azure SQL Database. 

Category: Issue 

Description OPENROWSET supports bulk operations through a built-in BULK provider 

that enables data from a file to be read and returned as a rowset. OPENROWSET with 

non-Azure blob storage data source isn't supported in Azure SQL Database. 

Recommendation 

Azure SQL Database can't access file shares and Windows folders, so the files must be 

imported from Azure Blob Storage. Therefore, only blob type DATASOURCE is supported 

in OPENROWSET function. Alternatively, migrate to SQL Server on Azure Virtual 

Machines 

For more information, see Resolving Transact-SQL differences during migration to SQL 

Database. 

OPENROWSET (provider) 

Title: OpenRowSet with SQL or non-SQL provider isn't supported in Azure SQL 

Database. 

Category: Issue 

Description 

OpenRowSet with SQL or non-SQL provider is an alternative to accessing tables in a 

linked server and is a one-time, ad hoc method of connecting and accessing remote 

----------------------- Page 199-----------------------

data by using OLE DB. OpenRowSet with SQL or non-SQL provider isn't supported in 

Azure SQL Database. 

Recommendation 

Azure SQL Database supports OPENROWSET only to import from Azure Blob Storage. 

Alternatively, migrate to SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

For more information, see Resolving Transact-SQL differences during migration to SQL 

Database. 

Non-ANSI left outer jo in 

Title: Non-ANSI style left outer join is no longer supported and has been removed. 

Category: Warning 

Description 

Non-ANSI style left outer join is no longer supported and has been removed in Azure 

SQL Database. 

Recommendation 

Use ANSI join syntax. 

For more information, see Discontinued Database Engine functionality in SQL Server. 

Non-ANSI right outer jo in 

Title: Non-ANSI style right outer join is no longer supported and has been removed. 

Category: Warning 

Description 

Non-ANSI style right outer join is no longer supported and has been removed in Azure 

SQL Database. 

Recommendation 

Use ANSI join syntax. 

For more information, see Discontinued Database Engine functionality in SQL Server. 

Next column 

Title: Tables and Columns named NEXT will lead to an error In Azure SQL Database. 

Category: Issue 

----------------------- Page 200-----------------------

Description 

Tables or columns named NEXT were detected. Sequences, introduced in Microsoft SQL 

Server, use the ANSI standard NEXT VALUE FOR function. If a table or a column is 

named NEXT and the column is aliased as VALUE, and if the ANSI standard AS is 

omitted, the resulting statement can cause an error. 

Recommendation 

Rewrite statements to include the ANSI standard AS keyword when aliasing a table or 

column. For example, when a column is named NEXT and that column is aliased as 

VALUE, the query  SELECT NEXT VALUE FROM TABLE causes an error, and should be 

rewritten as SELECT NEXT AS VALUE FROM TABLE. Similarly, when a table is named NEXT 

and that table is aliased as VALUE, the query  SELECT Col1 FROM NEXT VALUE causes an 

error, and should be rewritten as  SELECT Col1 FROM NEXT AS VALUE. 

RAISERROR 

Title: Legacy style RAISERROR calls should be replaced with modern equivalents. 

Category: Warning 

Description 

RAISERROR calls like the below example are termed as legacy-style because they don't 

include the commas and the parenthesis.  RAISERROR 50001  'this is a test '. This 

method of calling RAISERROR is no longer supported and removed in Azure SQL 

Database. 

Recommendation 

Rewrite the statement using the current RAISERROR syntax, or evaluate if the modern 

approach of  BEGIN TRY { } END TRY BEGIN CATCH { THROW; } END CATCH is feasible. 

For more information, see Discontinued Database Engine functionality in SQL Server. 

Server audits 

Title: Use Azure SQL Database audit features to replace Server Audits 

Category: Warning 

Description 

Server Audits isn't supported in Azure SQL Database. 

Recommendation 

Consider Azure SQL Database audit features to replace Server Audits. Azure SQL 

supports audit and the features are richer than SQL Server. Azure SQL Database can 

----------------------- Page 201-----------------------

audit various database actions and events, including: Access to data, Schema changes 

(DDL), Data changes (DML), Accounts, roles, and permissions (DCL, Security exceptions. 

Azure SQL Database Auditing increases an organization's ability to gain deep insight 

into events and changes that occur within their database, including updates and queries 

against the data. Alternatively migrate to Azure SQL Managed Instance or SQL Server on 

Azure Virtual Machines. 

For more information, see Auditing for Azure SQL Database and Azure Synapse 

Analytics. 

Server credentials 

Title: Server scoped credential isn't supported in Azure SQL Database 

Category: Warning 

Description 

A credential is a record that contains the authentication information (credentials) 

required to connect to a resource outside SQL Server. Azure SQL Database supports 

database credentials, but not the ones created at the SQL Server scope. 

Recommendation 

Azure SQL Database supports database scoped credentials. Convert server scoped 

credentials to database scoped credentials. Alternatively migrate to Azure SQL Managed 

Instance or SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines. 

For more information, see CREATE DATABASE SCOPED CREDENTIAL 

Service Broker 

Title: Service Broker feature isn't supported in Azure SQL Database 

Category: Issue 

Description 

SQL Server Service Broker provides native support for messaging and queuing 

applications in the SQL Server Database Engine. Service Broker feature isn't supported in 

Azure SQL Database. 

Recommendation 

Service Broker feature isn't supported in Azure SQL Database. Consider migrating to 

Azure SQL Managed Instance that supports service broker within the same instance. 

Alternatively, migrate to SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

----------------------- Page 202-----------------------

Server-scoped triggers 

Title: Server-scoped trigger isn't supported in Azure SQL Database 

Category: Warning 

Description 

A trigger is a special type of stored procedure that executes in response to certain 

action on a table like insertion, deletion, or updating of data. Server-scoped triggers 

aren't supported in Azure SQL Database. Azure SQL Database doesn't support the 

following options for triggers: FOR LOGON, ENCRYPTION, WITH APPEND, NOT FOR 

REPLICATION, EXTERNAL NAME option (there's no external method support), ALL 

SERVER Option (DDL Trigger), Trigger on a LOGON event (Logon Trigger), Azure SQL 

Database doesn't support CLR-triggers. 

Recommendation 

Use database level trigger instead. Alternatively migrate to Azure SQL Managed Instance 

or SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines. 

For more information, see Resolving Transact-SQL differences during migration to SQL 

Database. 

SQL Agent jo bs 

Title: SQL Server Agent jobs aren't available in Azure SQL Database 

Category: Warning 

Description 

SQL Server Agent is a Microsoft Windows service that executes scheduled administrative 

tasks, which are called jobs in SQL Server. SQL Server Agent jobs aren't available in 

Azure SQL Database. 

Recommendation 

Use elastic jobs, which are the replacement for SQL Server Agent jobs in Azure SQL 

Database. Elastic jobs for Azure SQL Database allow you to reliably execute T-SQL 

scripts that span multiple databases while automatically retrying and providing eventual 

completion guarantees. Alternatively consider migrating to Azure SQL Managed 

Instance or SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines. For more information, see Elastic jobs 

in Azure SQL Database. 

SQL Database size 

----------------------- Page 203-----------------------

Title: Azure SQL Database doesn't support database size greater than 100 TB. 

Category: Issue 

Description 

The size of the database is greater than the maximum supported size of 100 TB. 

Recommendation 

Evaluate if the data can be archived or compressed or sharded into multiple databases. 

Alternatively, migrate to SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

For more information, see vCore resource limits. 

SQL Mail 

Title: SQL Mail has been discontinued. 

Category: Warning 

Description 

SQL Mail has been discontinued and removed in Azure SQL Database. 

Recommendation 

Consider migrating to Azure SQL Managed Instance or SQL Server on Azure Virtual 

Machines and use Database Mail. 

For more information, see Discontinued Database Engine functionality in SQL Server 

SystemProcedures110 

Title: Detected statements that reference removed system stored procedures that 

aren't available in Azure SQL Database. 

Category: Warning 

Description 

Following unsupported system and extended stored procedures can't be used in Azure 

SQL Database -  sp_dboption  sp_addserver  sp_dropalias sp_activedirectory_obj,  ,  , , 

 sp_activedirectory_scp  sp_activedirectory_start,   . 

Recommendation 

Remove references to unsupported system procedures that have been removed in 

Azure SQL Database. 

For more information, see Discontinued Database Engine functionality in SQL Server 

----------------------- Page 204-----------------------

Trace flags 

Title: Azure SQL Database doesn't support trace flags 

Category: Warning 

Description 

Trace flags are used to temporarily set specific server characteristics or to switch off a 

particular behavior. Trace flags are frequently used to diagnose performance issues or to 

debug stored procedures or complex computer systems. Azure SQL Database doesn't 

support trace flags. 

Recommendation 

Review affected objects section in Azure Migrate to see all trace flags that aren't 

supported in Azure SQL Database and evaluate if they can be removed. Alternatively, 

migrate to Azure SQL Managed Instance, which supports limited number of global trace 

flags or SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines. 

For more information, see Resolving Transact-SQL differences during migration to SQL 

Database. 

Windows authentication 

Title: Database users mapped with Windows authentication (integrated security) 

aren't supported in Azure SQL Database. 

Category: Warning 

Description 

Azure SQL Database supports two types of authentication: 

      SQL Authentication: uses a username and password 

      Microsoft Entra authentication: uses identities managed by Microsoft Entra ID 

      (formerly Azure Active Directory) and is supported for managed and integrated 

      domains. 

Database users mapped with Windows authentication (integrated security) aren't 

supported in Azure SQL Database. 

Recommendation 

Federate the local Active Directory with Microsoft Entra ID. The Windows identity can 

then be replaced with the equivalent Microsoft Entra identities. Alternatively, migrate to 

SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

For more information, see SQL Database security capabilities. 

----------------------- Page 205-----------------------

xp_cmdshell 

Title: xp_cmdshell is not supported in Azure SQL Database. 

Category: Issue 

Description 

xp_cmdshell, which spawns a Windows command shell and passes in a string for 

execution, isn't supported in Azure SQL Database. 

Recommendation 

Review affected objects section in Azure Migrate to see all objects using  xp_cmdshell 

and evaluate if the reference to  xp_cmdshell or the affected object can be removed. 

Also consider exploring Azure Automation that delivers cloud-based automation and 

configuration service. Alternatively, migrate to SQL Server on Azure VMs. 

Related content 

      Migration guide: SQL Server to Azure SQL Database 

      Services and tools available for data migration scenarios 

      What is Azure SQL Database? 

      Azure total Cost of Ownership Calculator 

      Cloud Adoption Framework for Azure 

      Best practices for costing and sizing workloads migrate to Azure 

      Overview of Database Experimentation Assistant 

Feedback 

Was this page helpful?   Yes       No 

----------------------- Page 206-----------------------

Custom roles for SQL Server to Azure SQL 
Database migrations 

     Summarize this article for me 

This article explains how to set up a custom role in Azure for SQL Server database migrations. 

The custom role is configured with only the permissions required to initiate and execute 

migrations using an instance of Azure Database Migration Service, targeting Azure SQL 

Database. To provision a new instance of Azure Database Migration Service, the user must be 

assigned either the Owner or Contributor role at the subscription level. 

Use the  AssignableScopes section of the role definition JSON string to control where the 

permissions appear in the Add role assignment UI in the Azure portal. To avoid cluttering the 

UI with extra roles, you might want to define the role at the level of the resource group, or 

even the level of the resource. The resource that the custom role applies to doesn't perform 

the actual role assignment. 

  JSON 

  { 
      "properties": { 
          "roleName": "DmsCustomRoleDemoForSqlDB", 
          "description": "", 
          "assignableScopes": [ 
               
  "/subscriptions/<SQLDatabaseSubscription>/resourceGroups/<SQLDatabaseResourceGroup> 
  ", 
               
  "/subscriptions/<DatabaseMigrationServiceSubscription>/resourceGroups/<DatabaseMigr 
  ationServiceResourceGroup>" 
          ], 
          "permissions": [ 
              { 
                  "actions": [ 
                      "Microsoft.Sql/servers/read", 
                      "Microsoft.Sql/servers/write", 
                      "Microsoft.Sql/servers/databases/read", 
                      "Microsoft.Sql/servers/databases/write", 
                      "Microsoft.Sql/servers/databases/delete", 
                      "Microsoft.DataMigration/locations/operationResults/read", 
                      "Microsoft.DataMigration/locations/operationStatuses/read", 
                       
  "Microsoft.DataMigration/locations/sqlMigrationServiceOperationResults/read", 
                      "Microsoft.DataMigration/databaseMigrations/write", 
                      "Microsoft.DataMigration/databaseMigrations/read", 
                      "Microsoft.DataMigration/databaseMigrations/delete", 
                      "Microsoft.DataMigration/databaseMigrations/cancel/action", 
                      "Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/write", 
                      "Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/delete", 

----------------------- Page 207-----------------------

                      "Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/read", 
                       
  "Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/listAuthKeys/action", 
                       
  "Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/regenerateAuthKeys/action", 
                       
  "Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/deleteNode/action", 
                       
  "Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/listMonitoringData/action", 
                       
  "Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/listMigrations/read", 
                       
  "Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/MonitoringData/read", 
                      "Microsoft.DataMigration/SqlMigrationServices/tasks/read", 
                      "Microsoft.DataMigration/SqlMigrationServices/tasks/write", 
                      "Microsoft.DataMigration/SqlMigrationServices/tasks/delete" 
                  ], 
                  "notActions": [], 
                  "dataActions": [], 
                  "notDataActions": [] 
              } 
          ] 
      } 
  } 

You can use either the Azure portal, Azure PowerShell, Azure CLI, or Azure REST API to create 

the roles. 

For more information, see Create or update Azure custom roles using the Azure portal and 

Azure custom roles. 

Permissions required to migrate to Azure SQL 
Database 

                                                                                        ﾉ   Expand table 

  Permission action                                                               Description 

  Microsoft.Sql/servers/read                                                      Return the list of SQL 

                                                                                  database resources or 
                                                                                  get the properties for 
                                                                                  the specified SQL 
                                                                                  database. 

  Microsoft.Sql/servers/write                                                     Create a SQL database 

                                                                                  with the specified 
                                                                                  parameters or update 
                                                                                  the properties or tags 

----------------------- Page 208-----------------------

Permission action                                                                        Description 

                                                                                         for the specified SQL 
                                                                                         database. 

Microsoft.Sql/servers/databases/read                                                     Get an existing SQL 

                                                                                         database. 

Microsoft.Sql/servers/databases/write                                                    Create a new database 

                                                                                         or update an existing 
                                                                                         database. 

Microsoft.Sql/servers/databases/delete                                                   Delete an existing SQL 

                                                                                         database. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/locations/operationResults/read                                  Get the results of a 

                                                                                         long-running operation 
                                                                                         related to a 202 
                                                                                         Accepted response. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/locations/operationStatuses/read                                 Get the status of a 

                                                                                         long-running operation 
                                                                                         related to a 202 
                                                                                         Accepted response. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/locations/sqlMigrationServiceOperationResults/read               Retrieve service 

                                                                                         operation results. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/databaseMigrations/write                                         Create or update a 

                                                                                         database migration 
                                                                                         resource. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/databaseMigrations/read                                          Retrieve a database 

                                                                                         migration resource. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/databaseMigrations/delete                                        Delete a database 

                                                                                         migration resource. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/databaseMigrations/cancel/action                                 Stop ongoing migration 

                                                                                         for the database. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/write                                       Create a new service or 

                                                                                         change the properties 
                                                                                         of an existing service. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/delete                                      Delete an existing 

                                                                                         service. 

Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/read                                        Retrieve the details of 

                                                                                         the migration service. 

----------------------- Page 209-----------------------

  Permission action                                                                       Description 

  Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/listAuthKeys/action                        Retrieve the list of 
                                                                                          authentication keys. 

  Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/regenerateAuthKeys/action                  Regenerate 
                                                                                          authentication keys. 

  Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/deleteNode/action                          Deregister the 
                                                                                          integration runtime 
                                                                                          node. 

  Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/listMonitoringData/action                  List the monitoring data 
                                                                                          for all migrations. 

  Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/listMigrations/read                        Lists the migrations for 
                                                                                          the user. 

  Microsoft.DataMigration/sqlMigrationServices/MonitoringData/read                        Retrieve the monitoring 
                                                                                          data. 

  Microsoft.DataMigration/SqlMigrationServices/tasks/read                                 Get Migration Service 
                                                                                          Task details 

  Microsoft.DataMigration/SqlMigrationServices/tasks/write                                Create or Update 
                                                                                          Migration Service Task 

  Microsoft.DataMigration/SqlMigrationServices/tasks/delete                               Delete Migration 
                                                                                          Service Task 

You can get a sample script to create a login and provision it with the necessary permissions, 

for VMware, Hyper-V, or physical servers, using Windows authentication or SQL Server 

authentication. 

Role assignment 

To assign a role to a user or an app ID: 

    1. In the Azure portal, go to the resource. 

    2. In the left menu, select Access control (IAM), and then scroll to find the custom roles you 

       created. 

    3. Select the roles to assign, select the user or app ID, and then save the changes. 

       The user or app ID now appears on the  Role assignments tab. 

----------------------- Page 210-----------------------

Related content 

     Database Migration Guide 

 Last updated on 02/19/2026 

----------------------- Page 211-----------------------

Migration guide: SQL Server to Azure SQL 
Database 

     Summarize this article for me 

Applies to:       SQL Server       Azure SQL Database 

In this guide, you learn how to migrate      your SQL Server instance to Azure SQL Database. 

Complete pre-migration steps before continuing. 

Migrate 

After you complete the steps for the  pre-migration stage, you're ready to perform the schema 

and data migration. 

Migrate your data using your chosen migration method. 

Migrate using the Azure Database Migration Service 

For a detailed step-by-step tutorial, see Tutorial: Migrate SQL Server to Azure SQL Database 

(offline). 

Data sync and cutover 

When using migration options that continuously replicate / sync data changes from source to 

the target, the source data and schema can change and drift from the target. During data sync, 

ensure that all changes on the source are captured and applied to the target during the 

migration process. 

After you verify that data is same on both the source and the target, you can cut over from the 

source to the target environment. It's important to plan the cutover process with business / 

application teams to ensure minimal interruption during cutover doesn't affect business 

continuity. 

   ） Important 

   For details on the specific steps associated with performing a cutover as part of migrations 

   using DMS, see Tutorial: Migrate SQL Server to Azure SQL Database using DMS (classic). 

----------------------- Page 212-----------------------

Migrate using transactional replication 

When you can't afford to remove your SQL Server database from production while the 

migration is occurring, you can use SQL Server transactional replication as your migration 

solution. To use this method, the source database must meet the requirements for 

transactional replication and be compatible for Azure SQL Database. For information about 

SQL replication with availability groups, see Configure replication with Always On availability 

groups. 

To use this solution, you configure your database in Azure SQL Database as a subscriber to the 

SQL Server instance that you wish to migrate. The transactional replication distributor 

synchronizes data from the database to be synchronized (the publisher) while new transactions 

continue. 

With transactional replication, all changes to your data or schema show up in your database in 

Azure SQL Database. Once the synchronization is complete and you're ready to migrate, 

change the connection string of your applications to point them to your database. Once 

transactional replication drains any changes left on your source database and all your 

applications point to Azure SQL Database, you can uninstall transactional replication. Your 

database in Azure SQL Database is now your production system. 

    Tip 

  You can also use transactional replication to migrate a subset of your source database. The 

   publication that you replicate to Azure SQL Database can be limited to a subset of the 

  tables in the database being replicated. For each table being replicated, you can limit the 

   data to a subset of the rows and/or a subset of the columns. 

Transaction replication workflow 

  ） Important 

   Use the latest version of SQL Server Management Studio to remain synchronized with 

   updates to Azure and SQL Database. Older versions of SQL Server Management Studio 

   can't set up SQL Database as a subscriber. Get the latest version of SQL Server 

   Management Studio. 

                                                                                ﾉ   Expand table 

----------------------- Page 213-----------------------

  Step                              Method 

  Set up distribution               SQL Server Management Studio | Transact-SQL 

  Create publication                SQL Server Management Studio | Transact-SQL 

  Create subscription               SQL Server Management Studio | Transact-SQL 

Some tips and differences for migrating to SQL Database 

       Use a local distributor 

          Doing so causes a performance impact on the server. 

          If the performance impact is unacceptable you can use another server, but it adds 

          complexity in management and administration. 

      When selecting a snapshot folder, make sure the folder you select is large enough to hold 

      a BCP of every table you want to replicate. 

      Snapshot creation locks the associated tables until it's complete, so schedule your 

      snapshot appropriately. 

      Only push subscriptions are supported in Azure SQL Database. You can only add 

      subscribers from the source database. 

Migration recommendations 

To speed up migration to Azure SQL Database, you should consider the following 

recommendations: 

                                                                                             ﾉ   Expand table 

                  Resource contention                  Recommendation 

  Source          The primary bottleneck during        Based on data file I/O and latency, and depending on 
  (typically on   migration from the source is         whether it's a virtual machine or physical server, you 
  premises)       data file I/O and latency, which     might have to engage your storage admin and 
                  needs to be monitored carefully.     explore options to mitigate the bottleneck. 

 Target           The biggest limiting factor is the   To speed up migration, scale up the target Azure SQL 
  (Azure SQL      log generation rate and latency      database to Business Critical Gen5 8 vCore to get the 
  Database)       on your database log file. With      maximum log generation rate of 96 MB/s, which also 
                  Azure SQL Database, you can          provides low latency for log files. The Hyperscale 
                  get a maximum log generation         service tier provides a log rate of 100 MB/s regardless 
                  rate of 96 MB/s.                     of chosen service level. 

  Network         The network bandwidth needed         Depending on network connectivity from your on- 
                  is equal to the maximum log          premises data center to Azure, check your network 

----------------------- Page 214-----------------------

                 Resource contention                Recommendation 

                 ingestion rate 96 MB/s (768        bandwidth (typically Azure ExpressRoute) to 
                 Mb/s)                              accommodate for the maximum log ingestion rate. 

You can also consider these recommendations for best performance during the migration 

process. 

      Choose the highest service tier and compute size that your budget allows to maximize 

      the transfer performance. You can scale down after the migration completes to save 

      money. 

      If you use BACPAC files, minimize the distance between your BACPAC file and the 

      destination data center. 

      Disable auto update and auto create statistics during migration. 

      Partition tables and indexes. 

      Drop indexed views, and recreate them once finished. 

      Remove rarely queried historical data to another database and migrate this historical data 

      to a separate database in Azure SQL Database. You can then query this historical data 

      using elastic queries. 

Post-migration 

After you have successfully completed the migration stage, go through the following post- 

migration tasks to ensure that everything is functioning smoothly and efficiently. 

The post-migration phase is crucial for reconciling any data accuracy issues and verifying 

completeness, as well as addressing performance issues with the workload. 

Update statistics 

Update statistics with full scan after the migration is completed. 

Remediate applications 

After the data is migrated to the target environment, all the applications that formerly 

consumed the source need to start consuming the target. Accomplishing this will, in some 

cases, require changes to the applications. 

Perform tests 

The test approach for database migration consists of the following activities: 

----------------------- Page 215-----------------------

    1. Develop validation tests: To test database migration, you need to use SQL queries. You 

      must create the validation queries to run against both the source and the target 

      databases. Your validation queries should cover the scope you have defined. 

   2. Set up test environment: The test environment should contain a copy of the source 

      database and the target database. Be sure to isolate the test environment. 

   3. Run validation tests: Run the validation tests against the source and the target, and then 

      analyze the results. 

   4. Run performance tests: Run performance test against the source and the target, and then 

      analyze and compare the results. 

Use advanced features 

Be sure to take advantage of the advanced cloud-based features offered by SQL Database, 

such as built-in high availability, threat detection, and monitoring and tuning your workload. 

Some SQL Server features are only available once the database compatibility level is changed 

to the latest compatibility level. 

To learn more, see managing Azure SQL Database after migration. 

Resolve database migration compatibility issues 

You might encounter a wide variety of compatibility issues, depending both on the version of 

SQL Server in the source database and the complexity of the database you're migrating. Older 

versions of SQL Server have more compatibility issues. Use the following resources, in addition 

to a targeted Internet search using your search engine of choices: 

      Transact-SQL differences between SQL Server and Azure SQL Database 

      Discontinued Database Engine functionality in SQL Server 

   ） Important 

   Azure SQL Managed Instance enables you to migrate an existing SQL Server instance and 

   its databases with minimal to no compatibility issues. See What is Azure SQL Managed 

   Instance? 

Related content 

      Services and tools available for data migration scenarios 

      Tutorial: Migrate SQL Server to Azure SQL Database (offline) 

----------------------- Page 216-----------------------

     About Azure Migrate 

     What is Azure SQL Database? 

     Cloud Adoption Framework for Azure 

     Best practices for costing and sizing workloads for migration to Azure 

     Cloud Migration Resources 

Last updated on 02/20/2026 

----------------------- Page 217-----------------------

Tutorial: Migrate SQL Server to Azure SQL 
Database (offline) 

You can use Azure Database Migration Service via the Azure portal, to migrate databases from an 

on-premises instance of SQL Server to Azure SQL Database (offline). 

In this tutorial, learn how to migrate the sample  AdventureWorks2022 database from an on- 

premises instance of SQL Server to Azure SQL Database, by using Database Migration Service. 

This tutorial uses offline migration mode, which considers an acceptable downtime during the 

migration process. 

In this tutorial, you learn how to: 

 ＂   Create an instance of Azure Database Migration Service 

 ＂   Start your migration and monitor progress to completion 

   ） Important 

   Currently, online migrations for Azure SQL Database targets aren't available with Azure 

   Database Migration Service. In an offline migration, application downtime starts when the 

   migration starts. Testing an offline migration is recommended to determine whether the 

   downtime is acceptable. 

Migration options 

The following section describes how to use Azure Database Migration Service with the Azure 

portal. 

Prerequisites 

Before you begin the tutorial: 

      Ensure that you can access the Azure portal      . 

      Make sure that the Microsoft.DataMigration resource provider is registered in your 

      subscription. 

      Have an Azure account that's assigned to one of the following built-in roles: 

----------------------- Page 218-----------------------

        Contributor for the target Azure SQL Database 

        Reader role for the Azure resource group that contains the target Azure SQL Database 

        Owner or Contributor role for the Azure subscription (required if you create a new 

        instance of Azure Database Migration Service) 

     As an alternative to using one of these built-in roles, you can assign a custom role. 

     Create a target Azure SQL Database. 

     Make sure that the SQL Server login that connects to the source SQL Server instance is a 

     member of the db_datareader role, and that the login for the target SQL Server instance is a 

     member of the db_owner role. 

     To migrate the database Schema from the source to the target Azure SQL Database by 

     using the Database Migration Service, the minimum supported SHIR version                   required is 

     5.37 or above. 

     For schema migration, minimum permissions on the source SQL Server is db_owner to 

     access the database and on the target Azure SQL Database, the user should be member of 

     the all the server level roles in the following table: 

                                                                                            ﾉ   Expand table 

Roles                            Description 

##MS_DatabaseManager##           Members of the ##MS_DatabaseManager## fixed server role can create 
                                 and delete databases. A member of the ##MS_DatabaseManager## role 
                                 that creates a database becomes the owner of that database, which allows 
                                 that user to connect to that database as the dbo user. The dbo user has all 
                                 database permissions in the database. Members of the 
                                 ##MS_DatabaseManager## role don't necessarily have permission to 
                                 access databases that they don't own. It's recommended to use this server 
                                 role over the dbmanager database level role that exists in the  master 

                                 database. 

##MS_DatabaseConnector##         Members of the ##MS_DatabaseConnector## fixed server role can connect 
                                 to any database without requiring a user account in the database to 
                                 connect with. 

##MS_DefinitionReader##          Members of the ##MS_DefinitionReader## fixed server role can read all 
                                 catalog views that are covered by  VIEW ANY DEFINITION on any database on 

                                 which the member of this role has a user account. 

##MS_LoginManager##              Members of the ##MS_LoginManager## fixed server role can create and 
                                 delete logins. It's recommended to use this server role over the 

----------------------- Page 219-----------------------

  Roles                          Description 

                                 loginmanager database level role that exists in the  master database. 

Prepare the target Azure SQL Database 

To create the login and user on the target Azure SQL Database, run the following script on the 

master database: 

  SQL 

  CREATE LOGIN testuser WITH PASSWORD =  '<password>'; 

  ALTER SERVER ROLE ##MS_DefinitionReader## ADD MEMBER [testuser]; 
  GO 

  ALTER SERVER ROLE ##MS_DatabaseConnector## ADD MEMBER [testuser]; 
  GO 

  ALTER SERVER ROLE ##MS_DatabaseManager## ADD MEMBER [testuser]; 
  GO 

  ALTER SERVER ROLE ##MS_LoginManager## ADD MEMBER [testuser]; 
  GO 

  CREATE USER testuser FOR LOGIN testuser; 
  EXECUTE sp_addRoleMember  'dbmanager', 'testuser'; 
  EXECUTE sp_addRoleMember  'loginmanager', 'testuser'; 

Now, you can migrate both the database schema and data using Database Migration Service. You 

can also use other tools such as the SQL Database Projects extension in Visual Studio Code to 

migrate the schema before selecting the list of tables to migrate. 

   ７ Note 

   If no tables exist on the Azure SQL Database target, or no tables are selected before starting 

   the migration, the Next button isn't available to initiate the migration. If no table exists on 

   the target, then you must select the schema migration option to move forward. 

Create a Database Migration Service instance 

Step 1: In the Azure portal     , navigate to the Azure Database Migration Service page. Create a 

new instance of Azure Database Migration Service, or reuse an existing instance that you created 

earlier. 

----------------------- Page 220-----------------------

Use an existing instance of Database Migration Service 

To use an existing instance of Database Migration Service: 

     On Azure portal, under Azure Database Migration Services, select an existing instance of 

     Database Migration Service that you want to use, ensuring that it's present in right Resource 

     Group and region. 

                                                                                          

Create a new instance of Database Migration Service 

To create a new instance of Database Migration Service: 

   1. On Azure portal, under Azure Database Migration Service, select Create. 

                                                                                          

----------------------- Page 221-----------------------

2. In Select migration scenario and Database Migration Service, select the desired input like 

  Source and Target server type, choose Database Migration Service and choose Select. 

3. On the next screen Create Data Migration Service, select your subscription and resource 

  group, then select Location, and enter the Database Migration Service name. Select  Review 

  + Create. This creates the Azure Database Migration Service. 

----------------------- Page 222-----------------------

4. If the self-hosted integration runtime (SHIR) is required, on the overview page of your 

   Database Migration Service and under Settings, select Integration runtime, and complete 

  the following steps: 

   a. Select Configure integration runtime and choose the  Download and install integration 

     runtime     link to open the download link in a web browser. Download the integration 

     runtime, and then install it on a computer that meets the prerequisites for connecting to 

     the source SQL Server instance. For more information, see Self-hosted integration 

     runtime for database migrations. 

----------------------- Page 223-----------------------

                                                                                       

  When installation is finished, Microsoft Integration Runtime Configuration Manager 

  automatically opens to begin the registration process. 

b. In the Authentication key table, copy one of the authentication keys that are provided in 

  the wizard and paste it in Microsoft Integration Runtime Configuration Manager. 

                                                                                       

  If the authentication key is valid, a green check icon appears in Integration Runtime 

  Configuration Manager. A green check indicates that you can continue to  Register. 

----------------------- Page 224-----------------------

        After you register the self-hosted integration runtime, close Microsoft Integration 

        Runtime Configuration Manager. It might take several minutes to reflect the Node details 

        on Azure portal for Database Migration Service, under Settings > Integration runtime. 

                                                                                               

           ７ Note 

           For more information about the self-hosted integration runtime, see Create and 

           configure a self-hosted integration runtime. 

Start a new migration 

   1. To start a new migration, go to Azure Database Migration Service     in the Azure portal, and 

     either use +Create to create a new instance of Database Migration Service, or select an 

     existing instance, and then go to your Azure Database Migration Service instance. 

   2. On the Overview pane of your Azure Database Migration Service instance, select  New 

     migration: 

----------------------- Page 225-----------------------

                                                                               

3. Under Select new migration scenario, choose your source, target server type, migration 

  mode and choose Select. 

----------------------- Page 226-----------------------

                                                                                        

4. On the Azure SQL Database Offline Migration Wizard, follow these steps: 

   a. On the Source details tab, enter details for the source SQL Server instance, and then 

     select Next: Connect to source SQL Server: 

----------------------- Page 227-----------------------

                                                                               

b. On the Connect to source SQL Server tab, provide connection details and then select 

  Next: Select databases for migration: 

----------------------- Page 228-----------------------

                                                                                    

c. On the Select databases for migration tab, check the box next to the databases you 

  want to migrate. Populating the list of databases can take some time. Select Next: 

  Connect to target Azure SQL Database. 

----------------------- Page 229-----------------------

                                                                              

d. On the Connect to target Azure SQL Database tab, provide connection details and then 

  select Next: Map source and target databases: 

----------------------- Page 230-----------------------

                                                                               

e. On the Map source and target databases tab, map the databases between the source 

  and target. 

                                                                               

f. (Optional) Check the box next to Migrate Missing schema to deploy missing schema 

  objects from the source to the Azure SQL Database target to migrate the following 

----------------------- Page 231-----------------------

schema objects with a single checkbox : 

      Schemas 

      Tables (selected) 

      Indexes 

      Views 

      Stored procedures (StoredProcedures) 

      Synonyms 

      DDL triggers (DdlTriggers) 

      Defaults 

      Full text catalogs (FullTextCatalogs) 

      Plan guides (PlanGuides) 

      Roles 

      Rules 

      Application roles (ApplicationRoles) 

      User defined aggregates (UserDefinedAggregates) 

      User defined data types (UserDefinedDataTypes) 

      User defined functions (UserDefinedFunctions) 

      User defined table types (UserDefinedTableTypes) 

      User defined types (UserDefinedTypes) 

      Users* (not every user type) 

      XmlSchemaCollections 

   ７ Note 

         If you select Migrate Missing Schema, the Database Migration service 

         performs the schema migration before data is migrated. 

         DMS proceeds with the data migration phase even if schema migration 

         encounters errors, unless there are issues with table objects. 

Next, either use Select all tables to migrate all tables, or use the text entry box to filter 

the list of tables and select individual tables to migrate. Then select  Next: Database 

migration summary. 

----------------------- Page 232-----------------------

                                                                                    

g. On the Database migration summary tab, review the details and then select Start 

  migration, which starts database migration and automatically takes you back to the 

  Database Migration Service dashboard. 

----------------------- Page 233-----------------------

                                                                           

        ７ Note 

        For an offline migration, application downtime starts when the migration starts. 

Monitor the database migration 

----------------------- Page 234-----------------------

1. To monitor your database migration, on the Overview pane of your Database Migration 

   Service instance, select Monitor migrations. 

                                                                                                 

2. Under the Migrations tab, you can track migrations that are in progress, completed, and 

  failed (if any), or you can view all database migrations. In the menu bar, select  Refresh to 

   update the migration status. 

                                                                                                 

   Database Migration Service returns the latest known migration status each time migration 

   status refreshes. The following table describes possible statuses: 

                                                                                    ﾉ   Expand table 

    Status           Description 

    Creating         The service is starting the migration. 

----------------------- Page 235-----------------------

    Status              Description 

     Preparing for      The service is disabling autostats, triggers, and indexes in the target table. 
    copy 

    Copying             Data is being copied from the source database to the target database. 

    Copy finished       Data copy is finished. The service is waiting on other tables to finish copying to 
                        begin the final steps to return tables to their original schema. 

     Rebuilding         The service is rebuilding indexes on target tables. 
    indexes 

    Succeeded           All data is copied and the indexes are rebuilt. 

3. Under Source name, select a database name to open the table view.. In this detailed view, 

   you see the current status of the migration, the number of tables that currently are in that 

   status, and a detailed status of each table: 

                                                                                                            

4. When all table data is migrated to the Azure SQL Database target, Database Migration 

   Service updates the migration status from In progress to Succeeded. 

----------------------- Page 236-----------------------

                                                                                                

  ７ Note 

   Database Migration Service optimizes migration by skipping tables with no data (0 rows). 

   Tables that don't have data don't appear in the list, even if you selected the tables when you 

   created the migration. 

You've completed the migration to Azure SQL Database. Go through a series of post-migration 

tasks to ensure that everything functions smoothly and efficiently. 

Limitations 

Azure SQL Database offline migration utilizes Azure Data Factory (ADF) pipelines for data 

movement and thus abides by ADF limitations. A corresponding ADF is created when a database 

migration service is also created. Thus factory limits apply per service. 

----------------------- Page 237-----------------------

      The machine where the SHIR is installed acts as the compute for migration. Make sure this 

      machine can handle the cpu and memory load of the data copy. To learn more, review 

      Create and configure a self-hosted integration runtime. 

      100,000 table per database limit. 

      10,000 concurrent database migrations per service. 

      Migration speed heavily depends on the target Azure SQL Database SKU and the self- 

      hosted Integration Runtime host. 

      Azure SQL Database migration scales poorly with table numbers due to ADF overhead in 

      starting activities. If a database has thousands of tables, the startup process of each table 

      might take a couple of seconds, even if they're composed of one row with 1 bit of data. 

      Azure SQL Database table names with double-byte characters currently aren't supported for 

      migration. Mitigation is to rename tables before migration; they can be changed back to 

      their original names after successful migration. 

      Tables with large blob columns might fail to migrate due to timeout. 

      Database names with SQL Server reserved are currently not supported. 

      Database names that include semicolons are currently not supported. 

      Computed columns don't get migrated. 

      Columns in the source database that have default constraints and contain  NULL values, are 

      migrated with their defined default values on the target Azure SQL database, rather than 

      retaining the NULLs. 

      If your source database has change data capture (CDC) enabled and you are using Azure 

      Database Migration Service (Azure DMS) for schema migration, you should disable CDC on 

      the source database before starting the migration. If CDC isn't disabled beforehand, Azure 

      DMS will migrate CDC-related objects (such as tables) to the target. This can cause 

      problems when attempting to enable CDC on the target database post-migration. 

Related content 

      Quickstart: Create a single database - Azure SQL Database 

      What is Azure SQL Database? 

      Azure SQL Database and Azure SQL Managed Instance connect and query articles 

 Last updated on 05/04/2026 
